Consent Management
Privacy Policy:
The Cryptopedic ("Cryptopedic") operates cryptopedic.com and may operate other websites. It is Cryptopedic's policy to respect your privacy regarding any information we may collect while operating our websites.
Website Visitors
Like most website operators, Cryptopedic collects non-personally-identifying information of the sort that web browsers and servers typically make available, such as the browser type, language preference, referring site, and the date and time of each visitor request. Cryptopedic's purpose in collecting non-personally identifying information is to better understand how Cryptopedic's visitors use its website. From time to time, Cryptopedic may release non-personally-identifying information in the aggregate, e.g., by publishing a report on trends in the usage of its website.
Cryptopedic also collects potentially personally-identifying information like Internet Protocol (IP) addresses for logged in users and for users leaving comments on cryptopedic.com blogs/sites. Cryptopedic only discloses logged in user and commenter IP addresses under the same circumstances that it uses and discloses personally-identifying information as described below, except that commenter IP addresses and email addresses are visible and disclosed to the administrators of the blog/site where the comment was left.
Gathering of Personally-Identifying Information
Certain visitors to Cryptopedic's websites choose to interact with Cryptopedic in ways that require Cryptopedic to gather personally-identifying information. The amount and type of information that Cryptopedic gathers depends on the nature of the interaction. For example, we ask visitors who sign up at cryptopedic.com to provide a username and email address. Those who engage in transactions with Cryptopedic are asked to provide additional information, including as necessary the personal and financial information required to process those transactions. In each case, Cryptopedic collects such information only insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the purpose of the visitor's interaction with Cryptopedic. Cryptopedic does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below. And visitors can always refuse to supply personally-identifying information, with the caveat that it may prevent them from engaging in certain website-related activities.
Aggregated Statistics
Cryptopedic may collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to its websites. Cryptopedic may display this information publicly or provide it to others. However, Cryptopedic does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below.
Privacy Policy
You read and agreed to our Privacy Policy .
OK
