March 1 at 9:13 PM
Elements of an TerraGreen ICO:  (1).Greenpaper:  A clear GreenPaper ...is crucial, and should contain all the information about the ICO to inform investors while simultaneously building trust. It is important convey all the necessary information in an honest and realistic fashion.  Things to include are: · The problem the company wants to solve · The solution to the problem · The description of the solution · The business model of the company (revenue streams, value, financial projections) · Information regarding the token (supply, pricing, caps, utility, equity, security, deployment plan) · The company’s team · Legal disclaimers  · General timeline  (2).Team:  Building a solid, credible team works to build trust between investors and ICO issuers. Seeing an experienced and competent team behind the ICO humanizes the company and fosters more trust and faith.  Companies often share short profiles of their key team members. Perhaps for the founder(s), outlining their vision and rationale for establishing the company is effective in boosting public relations. Having a strong, seasoned advisory team also lets the investors feel the project is in safe hands.  (3).Security:  This is vital. Security in an ICO is something you should pay great attention to both as an investor and an issuer. Simply look at the effects of 2016’s DAO hack to see the effect poor cyber-security can have on the entire crypto market. The massive theft of 3.6m Ether caused the value of Ether to drop by 30–40%, and ruined what was seen as a promising up-and-comer in the crypto world.  (4).A Legal Framework:  Different countries have varying levels of regulation when it comes to blockchain-based companies.  Looking into the legality of ICOs in your area is a must. #ico #crypto #btc #eth #ltc #cryptonews See More
March 1 at 4:15 AM
If you already own cryptocurrency, you can skip the converting proce...ss and it will be even faster. Money transfer using cryptos is a process like no other:  · No middle-men; · Fast as Lighting; · High-level Security; · At any time; · From anywhere in the world; · To whomever you want; · As much as you want. #crytpocurrency #blockchains #btc #ethereum #crypto #crytpocurrencies #blockchainnews See More
