Stefan
Coinmama-an Israel-based crypto brokerage that allows users to purchase bitcoin and ethereum with a credit card reportedly suffered a data breach where 450,000 users were affected according to the official company’s announcement that reached in our crypto news today.
The breach is a part of a multi-platform hack that hit 24 companies and about 750 million records such as travel bookings, streaming sites, and gaming records. Coinmama noted:
 “As of February 15, 2019, there has been no evidence of this data being used by perpetrators. Given the dated nature of the published data, we have no reason to suspect that any other Coinmama systems are compromised. Coinmama does not store credit card information.”
The broker immediately notified its users of the breach and is now working hard to try and recover the passwords of the affected users as well as monitor all of the systems that might have been under suspicious activity. They are also working to improve and increase the tracking of any external signs and safeguards.
Coinmama urged its users to change their passwords and requested from their users to make sure the passwords they choose are unique. They also told the users to avoid any emails or attachments from unknown senders or to provide any kind of personal data to third-party sites.
What is also important is that the data breach didn’t only affect Coinmama but many companies that are outside of the crypto sector. This is a second large hit to the crypto industry since the year started. On January 15, hundreds of ETH wallets from crypto exchange Cryptopia were hacked and more than $23 million was lost.
Share This With Your Friends
DC Forecasts is a leader in many crypto news categories, striving for the highest journalistic standards and abiding by                                  a strict set of editorial policies. If you are interested to offer your expertise or contribute to our news website,                                   feel free to contact us at editor@dcforecasts.com
