Human Citizens vs Cyborg Cops
COMMUNITY
Find us on:
#decimated #decimatedgame #decimatedICO
If you have subscribed to our mailing list and wish to unsubscribe, you may do so here .
OUR TEAM
Our team consists of highly experienced game developers who have been involved with games including
Evolve, The Division, Sniper Ghost Warrior 3, Robinson, The Climb, Primal Carnage, DOOM, HALO Wars and more,
in cooperation with the lead blockchain team behind Halo Platform to deliver the highest quality multiplayer game experience for PC.
STEPHEN 'ESPION' ARNOLD
CEO & CREATIVE DIRECTOR
15+ years of experience involved with music & sound design, 2D & 3D art supervision, storyboarding, previs, performance capture & real-time cinematics. Stephen has arranged partnerships with many AAA videogame studios such as Techland, Warner Bros, Netherrealm, Hi Rez Studios, Sony Santa Monica and Gearbox Software, delivering the highest quality visuals and pushing the limits of game engine technology.
JOE GARTH
UNREAL ENGINE ARTIST
An experienced Cinematic Artist with 8+ years of industry experience working on Crysis, Robinson, Ryse: Son of Romeand Primal Carnage. Joe's goal is to create cinematics and digital artwork that achieve a superior level of quality and communicate story in an effective, thought provoking way. Extended knowledge of Autodesk 3D Studio Max, Maya, Adobe Photoshop, Unreal Engine 4, 3D Coat, Substance Designer, Megascans studio and more.
JASON CHEE
LAYOUT TD / PREVIS ARTIST
A hugely experienced previs artist having worked on Bladerunner 2049, Pacific Rim, Deadpool 2, Maze Runner and War for the Planet of the Apes, with companies such as Double Negative, Halon and MPC. Jason has software knowledge of Maya, Motion Builder, Match Mover, After Effects, Photoshop, Unreal Engine and Nuke. He produces pre-vis and post-vis CG cameras, positions and composes digital assets for later stages of the pipeline.
Bora Helvacioglu
Environment Artist
An environment/environment level artist with an architecture diploma who has a passion for designing environment levels and environmental 3d models for games. Maya, Unreal Engine 4, Photoshop and Substance Painter are his basic tools in the design process and PBR workflow.
Oğuzhan KAR
Senior Environment Artist
Experienced Senior Artist with a demonstrated history of working in the computer games industry. Skilled in Maya, Substance Painter, Unreal Engine 4, 3dsMax, Moi3d , Sketchup , Renderman Render , ZBrush, V-Ray, and Adobe Photoshop. Strong arts and design professional with a Graduated focused in Architecture from Yildiz Technical University.
Ken Thain
Executive Producer
Critically acclaimed Cinematic Director with over 5 top selling big budget AAA game releases, including Mass Effect, Dragon Age and Star Wars franchises. With more than a hundred hours of directed cinematics and over 12 years experience in a creative leadership role in the gaming industry, Kens focus is in delivering ‘best in class’ video game cinematics and story-based content in top selling video games.
James Yates
Lead programmer
Digital asset creator for Unreal Engine 4, from 3D modeling, animation, level design, texturing, lighting and coding. James has had experience creating assets and bringing them to market in all these areas. CEO of Defuse Studios, one of the largest Unreal Marketplace sellers.
Chris Brown
MMO Economy Advisor
Chris has published many articles related to economics and specifically for MMORPGs such as World of Warcraft™, Everquest, and Lord of the Rings Online. Chris provides insight into digital economies and how to create competition and cooperation between real players while maintaining the persistent and socially driven ideas of the MMORPG.
Max Bedulenko
CONCEPT ARTIST
Environment artist with 4+ years of experience creating illustrations and concept art for game and cinema industries, book covers. Mainly prefers to work with the atmosphere and the inner narrative of the pictures.
Gary Sanchez
Concept Artist
Gary Sanchez is an Art/Design director, concept designer working for film/TV/videogames, and has worked for Digital Domain, Cloud Imperium Games, Ubisoft, Quantic Dream, Peugeot, Renault, Sony and more.
Wadim Kashin
Concept Artist
The talented Wadim Kashin has worked for NC Soft, 20th Century Fox, Passion Pictures, National Geographic, BLUR Studio, Reflector Entertainment, Real Time UK, Illfonic and more.
Thomas Lemesle
Recruitment Manager
Formerly from Nintendo Europe, Thomas has experience specialized in project management for game development, localization, QA, community management, and process management. He has an extremely valuable network of talent in the games industry, finding the perfect people for the perfects role.
Diana Xaiydee Boden
COMMUNITY MANAGER
Xaiydee is an avid gamer, graphics designer, with experience in game localization and community management in English and German. She manages our Discord community and social media.
Francois Poupard
Advisor
Former Business Development Manager at Ethfinex, Strategy and Fintech executive with 15 years of experience in Corporate Finance, Capital Markets, and Blockchain, having run successful businesses and worked as a Consultant for a Fortune 500 company, COO, CFO, and Sales-Trader.
BOUNTY
