Olaf Hannemann, Co-Founder & Chief Investment Officer CV VC“We are Long-term Oriented Company Builders”
CV VC will launch an incubation program soon. What is the reason for this move?
As company and ecosystem builders, we love to support young companies and ideas that have the potential to change the world. This is why we are into blockchain and this is why we are launching a dedicated incubation program right in the heart of the Crypto Valley. I believe, successful venture capital of the future must find ways to support startups with much more than just capital – expert knowledge, mentoring, networks, social elements, and that is what we can provide with our incubation program. Furthermore, the participating startups will also benefit from our own businesses in our eco-system, which includes our own blockchain advisory team, our co-working space CV Labs, centrally located in Zug, which also serves as the home for the start-ups during the 10 week program, and events such as the CV Summit, which attracts over 900 participants and will serve as an ideal platform for our startups to reach a broad audience of the global and regional blockchain community.
Why now? The crypto market has plunged, investors are cautious.
The timing is right to launch our first incubation batch, given the market has normalized, startups and investors alike must focus on real business cases. Funding is more challenging to obtain compared to 12 months ago – conditions you want to have in order to build a successful company. We are long-term oriented company builders and not just interested in quick wins.  
Why Switzerland?
We are launching in Zug, given the highly attractive business environment in general, as well as blockchain companies in specific. Switzerland is one of the predominant global hubs for the blockchain space and we consider this a major opportunity for the country to be at the forefront of what could become the next industrial revolution. We want to play our part in developing the local ecosystem and positioning Switzerland as tomorrow´s tech-hub. To put this into perspective, the current combined value of blockchain startups domiciled in Switzerland is about $20 billion with some 3,300 employees in country already today. This would rank the top blockchain startups as the 13th biggest company in the SMI, so we are already speaking about a highly relevant sector for the Swiss economy, albeit with immense growth potential for the future.
What is the difference to other existing programs for startups?  
First and foremost, we focus exclusively on blockchain companies. This will provide startups with a unique network of peers from day one and medium-term as well as a highly relevant alumni network going forward. Secondly, we designed our program from scratch and tailored it to the requirements of blockchain startups, and our mentors and experts are predominantly entrepreneurs themselves. The spirit of our program is from entrepreneurs for entrepreneurs. Thirdly, we are truly involved, having designed an interactive program with about 15h to 20h per week of activity (expert sessions, mentorship, group and individual training and exchange) with highly specific seminars as well as “outside the box” events.
How many startups have already applied for the incubator?  
We are currently screening about 500 startups. About half of them have applied specifically for the incubation program, the other half comes from our general network.
What is the quality of the startups that have applied so far?
We are presently screening startups and have identified a list of very attractive business propositions and are conducting (live or video) interviews. The quality is high, they range from very early business concepts to PoC/first revenues. Arguably, the entire space is quite young though, and many concepts are yet untested, however I would argue that is a common feature in many early stage investments regardless of sector or technology.
What areas (specific industry) are the startups from?
Applications cover a broad range of sectors, we are counting around 30 startups seek to address areas from creating new platforms & protocols, the obvious range of FinTech and InsurTech, data & analytics, supply chain, all the way to education, art and social impact.
Do you see any diversity in the startups that have applied (in regards of the gender or nationality)?
Yes we do. We would still love to see more female founders though. In terms of nationality, we are excited to have been able to attract startups from over 50 countries. Switzerland as our home country ranks first, followed by startups from the US and other European countries. We had a good number of applicants from the UK and India too, and are also happy with the inflow from Eastern Europe and some Latin American countries. We had some founders approach us from Asia, though we do believe the region would benefit from a more dedicated approach – as such we are planning our first international hub for this region.
What are you looking for in the startups?
In summary, the right idea at the right time from a great team. We are looking at a broad range of measures across different categories, including the concept itself, overall market potential, tech stack and knowledge, team background and willingness to work with us, competitive landscape, scaleability, overall quality of the documents submitted, and potential to achieve future funding.
Goto first page
InvestingPartnering with Crypto Finance Conference in St. Moritz
From January 16th - 18th, the second edition of the Crypto Finance Conference St. Moritz   took place at the Suvretta House. CV VC seized the opportunity to present its unique business case.
As part of the promotion strategy of CV VC and its eco-system, it was decided to partner with the Crypto Finance Conference (CFC) , which took place in St. Moritz right before the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos. The CFC is one of the most exclusive investor conferences in the world and brings together an exclusive and high-quality audience of funds, family offices, institutional investors as well as leading industry experts from around the world.
As an important part of the Blockchain eco-system in Switzerland, CV VC was prominently represented with CEO Mathias Ruch as a panelist and the sponsoring of the important networking event on the first evening of the conference. The first day of the conference ended with an intimate networking event at the Hato Bar & Lounge in St. Moritz, powered by CV VC. Due to a big increase in ticket sales of the conference, the networking event was extremely well attended. The team on site spent a successful evening connecting with various important industry leaders and decision makers and received excellent feedback regarding various CV projects.
On the Thursday panel The good, the bad and the ugly – Lessons learned and shining examples of token economics, Mathias discussed past and current experiences with Lakeside Partners and CV VC with the other industry experienced panelists (Richard Ettl, Melanie Mohr and Fabian Vogelsteller). The partnership with the Crypto Finance Conference helped strengthen the position of CV VC as an important industry expert and resource within the local and global Blockchain space. Many attendants were heading to the WEF in Davos right after the CFC, where the CV VC team then further strengthened these relationships.
Goto first page
Daniel Diemers, Partner at PwC Strategy&Beyond the Hype: Why Crypto Finance is Here to Stay
Exactly one year ago, the crypto market hype experienced a strong correction, which resulted in a volatile up and down throughout 2018. Spearheaded by Bitcoin, the altcoins also reversed their momentum and came to a crashing halt. During its mainstream moment in 2017, where the market capitalization had jumped from 18 billion USD in January to 597 billion USD in December, the crypto finance community had already been the topic of much controversy. After the crash in January 2018 but also during the current “crypto winter”, many critics are quick to herald the end of crypto –in their opinion a short-lived hype had come to its natural conclusion.  I disagree –the initial shockwaves of the crypto crash have since faded away and in view of the current market stabilization and better regulation, cryptocurrencies, security tokens and asset-backed tokens are more relevant today than ever. I am convinced that crypto finance is here to stay!
The many facets of crypto finance
There are two main reasons why I believe that crypto finance will continue to disrupt financial services:      Firstly, until the crash, the term ‘Bitcoin’ was used almost synonymously with ‘cryptocurrency’ and with a market share of 80% to 90% unambiguously dominated this new asset class. After a short drop down to 33%, it has now stabilized at 51% and it certainly still drives the market. Additionally, a variety of different ecosystems such as Ethereum as a DAPP and ICO platform or XRP/Ripple as a much popular money transfer/settlement solution, have established themselves beside the ‘crypto gold’ and exhibit market capitalization worth billions –even after the market correction last January.
With the arrival of more variety, asset-backed tokens, security tokens, etc., the ‘Bitcoin monopoly’ has given way to a broader more colorful eco-system.   Secondly, regarding the rising number of business opportunities, startups and incumbents going into crypto finance have become more professional and more committed. Today the crypto scene consists of an increasing number of startups, investors and finance companies instead of a few tech-savvy early movers that helped shape the crypto-era before the 2017 hype. This trend helped fuel a newly emerging subindustry within financial services.
Emergence of a new market 
structure
Taking a closer look at the current market infrastructures, yet a striking imbalance in maturity compared to traditional finance stands out. The basis of the crypto finance infrastructure, mining, crypto exchanges and increasingly custody solutions are already well developed and are being even more professionalized, attracting not only new startups, but an increasing number of incumbents. A growing regulatory transparency also means that Risk, Legal & Compliance solutions for crypto finance are evolving steadily. API & Interfaces and Market Makers & Liquidity Providers, on the other hand, are still widely regarded as the ‘white spots’ of the crypto finance market and are yet to be introduced in the market. Large, single transactions still impact market prices too much, as has been demonstrated over the past one to two months. 
Opportunities for the banking industry
I believe that traditional banks have no reason to be this hesitant towards getting involved in crypto finance. They have a great ”right to win”, as they possess years’ worth of expertise in advising customers and providing the necessary processes and safety nets to contribute to the world of crypto and secure their roles within the market. Additionally, the increasingly enhanced market regulation better complies with their high standards and gives them the opportunity to provide a comprehensive crypto offering. However, the banking sector should move quickly: As soon as exchanges start offering crypto and security token trading, more customers will want to buy and trade immediately, giving all first movers a vital head start. If incumbents want to take their share in this new crypto finance market, they need to start implementing the necessary structures and build strategic capabilities now.
The crypto exchanges in this new market infrastructure are still clearly dominated by Asian companies (e.g. Binance, OKEx, Bitfinex, Huobi), while US-based exchanges (e.g. Coinbase, Kraken) are currently trying to increase trading volumes on their side of the ocean. More and more US (e.g. ICE’s Bakkt) and European exchanges (e.g. Swiss exchange SIX with SDX and the Stuttgart exchange with Bison) are already in the starting blocks. Interestingly, most traditional banking services and incumbents are still missing from the scene and are reluctant at taking their first steps in areas like wealth & asset management, retail banking or investment banking solutions around crypto assets. Only gradually, an increasing number of banks investigates potential entry points and considers offering, for example, crypto storage facilities, trading platforms or crypto investment opportunities.
Ralf Kubli, Director Advisory CV VC«The industry is now finding its ground»
Ralf Kubli, what kind of services does CV VC’s Advisory unit provide to startups?
CV VC Advisory is the leading blockchain advisory team in Crypto Valley. We cover critical stages of startup life including business model development, technology assessment & token model, attracting capital, communication strategy and strategic partnerships.
With respect to business consulting and advisory, are blockchain startups different from other startups in general? Is there something special you have to take into account?
Many of the founders in this space are young technical founders. It is often their first startup or even their first professional experience.  We can broadly divide the space into two groups: First, startups working on fundamental technologies (protocols such as ETH, GRIN, etc.) and applications on these infrastructures. Secondly, startups which are focused on enterprise applications. Both areas present special challenges.  For the first group, the unique CVVC perspective across the entire blockchain/DLT space, enables us to evaluate teams and business ideas.  In the case of the second group, the founders typically have little experience in navigating corporate structures and needs.
After the plunge of most cryptocurrencies, is there likely to be a slump in new blockchain startups or a broad wave of redundancies or insolvencies?
Dismissals and insolvencies depend on the business activities of the respective company. We expect challenges at crypto exchanges, trading managers (e.g. OTC desks) and companies which achieve transactions with crypto turnover. Software developments can be driven forward with small budgets, and we see that many projects now continue to work with smaller core teams. In addition, it must be said that during the boom, some startups hired far too many employees. Now, a return to the actual tasks is taking place.
What strategies should startups pursue to avoid being dependent on prices on the cryptocurrency market? 
The prudent companies have converted a part of the cryptocurrencies they collected into FIAT.  Well managed projects now have enough time (so-called "runway") to deliver a product or a first version of their software.
How should startups financially position themselves to avoid such effects? 
The budget that's needed to finance a core team over a long period of time should be converted into FIAT.  There are also hedging services, tough this can be very expensive.
What is CV VC's approach to enabling startups to grow healthily and what factors lead to "abandonment" of projects? 
CV VC invests in companies whose business model is enabled by blockchain application. We are looking for the most brilliant minds who can work together to create value with this technology. It needs a good control of the development processes and an expansion of the activities at the right time with appropriate resources. Too much liquidity right from the start leads to misallocation of time and valuable talent.
As it has become more difficult to run an ICO, what alternatives would you recommend to blockchain startups in need of capital?
We now see a return to more traditional financing rounds, which include equity, convertible notes, and similar known instruments.  Angel rounds also gain more importance in these times of scarce capital.  For CV VC as an investor, the current situation is a tremendous advantage, as we get to see even more excellent teams and founders from which we can choose the best to invest in.
Goto first page
CV Competition for Real EstateOver 100 Applications from 38 Countries
The applications for the CV Competition for Real Estate have been closed. On March 27th, 2019, ten finalists will present their blockchain venture at the CV Summit in the Theater Casino in Zug. The winner receives a $100,000 cash prize (no strings attached) as well as mentoring and working space at CV Labs.
We have received 135 applications from 38 countries. 12% of them come from startups based in Switzerland, about 10% are based in the UK and 9% in the US. We have also received several applications from India as well as from Australia.
The Jury, comprising national and international industry experts, is reviewing the applications and will invite the 30 best startups for interviews in February.
Goto first page
Leading Blockchain Projects in Crypto ValleyBanks, ETH Spinoffs and ATM Producers Entering the Space
Eventhough the crypto currencies are taking a tumble, many blockchain companies in Crypto Valley are taking this time to silently work on their technology and their Business models. We highlight the most important Projects and initiatives.
ChainSecurity
The ETH Zurich Spinoff, discovered a security leak in the planned Ethereum upgrade. Ethereum wanted to undergo one of its regular upgrades. However, this was stopped the last minute - due to a tip from the ETH spin-off Chainsecurity. Hubert Ritzdorf, CTO of ChainSecurity states: "If the upgrade had been carried out as planned, users could have attacked certain contracts with the intention of abuse and thus plundered the accounts of other users".
 
Further Information here
Vontobel
A premiere in the Swiss financial centre and worldwide: Vontobel offers institutional clients crypto depository services. The bank relies on a solution from the Geneva-based fintech Taurus' Technology.
Further Information here
Lamassu
Lamassu is moving to Crypto Valley. One of the first to develop the fiat-crypto machine concept when it launched in 2013, also noted the continuing prejudice companies in this industry face from the traditional financial sector.
 
Nestlé
One of the biggest global food corporation Nestlé is launching a blockchain project with IBM. The blockchain brings valuable use cases not only to the financial sector but also to the food industry, with tracking of the supply chain through blockchain. (Article in German)
 
Xapo
The Bitcoin service provider, Xapo, is transferring their key operations to Switzerland due to the friendly regulatory environment. Xapo president Ted Rogers states: “Swiss regulators are smart, interested and sophisticated in dealing with the financial markets.” Seeing other big industry players move to Switzerland, supports the attractiveness of the Crypto Valley.
Further Information here
Polkadot 
The blockchain protocol seeks to raise another 60 Million in 2019. They have previously raised $145 via token sale in October 2017. Polkadot is a blockchain interoperability protocol, developed by ethereum co-founder Gavin Wood and overseen by Parity Technologies and the Web3 Foundation, based in Switzerland.
