Share 0
As usual, the cryptoverse threw up more than its fair share of interesting and in some cases, downright exciting, developments. Price threatened to rally then decided to bide its time for a while yet. Institutional money finally makes an appearance in the market, a shot across the bow of the bear perhaps? The SEC hints at soon to be announced regulatory clarity for the crypto industry. Bitcoins monthly chart shows a very interesting pattern. The managing director of Co-Venture gives us a peek into his trading mindset. A developer unpacks Cardano and finds a lot to like. Perhaps most interestingly of all, LiquidApps may have unlocked scaling for EOS.
Twitter
The story behind how a crypto venture fund landed two pension funds as investors:
0/ The fund we announced today at Morgan Creek Digital was the product of a lot of work.
Time for a thread 
BTC analysis that sees a drop to year lows mid-year before a rebound:
The only chart you need.
My rough view on what I believe is going to happen.
Break that trendline before we can even think about having bullish discussions.
Patience is Virtue. pic.twitter.com/mb5y3Xh3cK
— Murad Mahmudov  (@MustStopMurad) February 6, 2019
A hint of regulatory clarity from the SEC:
1/4 Clearer guidelines around Digital Securities/STOs from SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce: "A group of people get together to build something and they need to find investors to fund their efforts so they sell securities, sometimes called tokens. The SEC applies existing ….
— Atomic Capital (@Atomic_Capital) February 10, 2019
So this guy is bullish, are you?
If you’re currently hedged I think you’d be wise to increase your exposure to Bitcoin by 10% a month for the rest of 2019.
Rather than trying to pick a bottom & going all in.
2019 is the last year you’ll be able to afford Bitcoin so don’t try & be a fucking smart ass about it.
— $carface (@TraderScarface) February 11, 2019
Does Twitter and by extension social media actually act to stifle big ideas? (I think no, but worth a moment of reflection.):
Imagine the reaction on Twitter if Darwin published the Origin of Species today. It was bad enough for him at the time, but imagine what it would be like now. If he had an employer, there's a significant chance he'd be fired.
— Paul Graham (@paulg) November 30, 2018
A man who knew a thing or two:
FOUR Productivity FEYNMAN- strategies:
i) Stop trying to know-it-all.
ii) Don't worry about what others are thinking.
iii) Don't think about what you want to be, but what you want to do.
iv) Have a sense of humor and talk honestly. pic.twitter.com/COQU9HHkdx
— Richard Feynman (@ProfFeynman) February 7, 2019
A bit of lighthearted investment wisdom:
Turned $5K into $50K by adding $45K to my brokerage account.
— Ramp Capital ♿️ (@RampCapitalLLC) February 13, 2019
Articles
BTC network security may face real issues in the coming years and some possible solutions (highly recommended):
