February 16, 2019 February 12, 2019
0 Share 39 views
Facebook Twitter linkedin Pinterest Google+ Reddit Stumbleupon Tumblr
As the name suggests, Berminal is a mix of Blockchain and a Terminal, which ideally suits the platform. It is a Blockchain and Cryptocurrency platform which is organised into a terminal which provides sufficient information for Crypto enthusiasts. It challenges the very notion of Twitter’s countless promotional content, with trolls even bringing down coins which have high value to the world.
A Crypto enthusiast or an active Crypto trader needs accurate news and not falsified news that is portrayed through the various social media platforms. Thus Berminal has created a justified system where real and original news that is efficient is shared.
Berminal is available through a web browser, and even a mobile application whether it be Android or iOs.
Berminal’s Efficient News Aggregator
It is designed perfectly with brief information that is easy on the eyes. It is the ideal application to open when waking up to know what the latest and most important news is, to browsing on it while you are having lunch.
It can also be browsed on your mobile when travelling through its mobile application. Best of all the articles are redirected to the original source. Berminal allows the community to decide whether it is important news or not, by a voting system embedded . You too have the privilege to vote on whether or not the article is newsworthy or just a bunch of information which won’t make a difference.
For the Hardcore Crypto Enthusiasts
It’s has a mesmerizing portal of airdrops which makes it very convenient for bounty hunters, who if not for Berminal would be browsing every nook and corner of Telegram’s channels and groups.
If you love telegram no problem, you can hop on to the Berminal telegram community and chat away with like-minded Crypto lovers!
Crypto Charts At Your Finger Tips
Once you’re on Berminal, you will notice a Crypto ticker on the top flowing continuosly displaying the percentage changes. Thus it allows you to pick up interesting Cryptocurrencies which are on the move upwards shown in green while browsing through the important Blockchain and Crypto news.
Clicking any of the Cryptocurrency signs will lead you to the trading chart on the right side signifying essential details such as the price, and analysis. You can view charts with various indicators and historical statistics, which is pretty much a simplified version of TradingView.
Click ‘Reseach’ for an interesting insight thanks to the affiliation with Coincheckup.
Don’t forget to utilise the alerts by switching the price alerts button on. Given the volatility of Cryptocurrencies it is vital you get to buy the Cryptocurrency you want to hold when things are looking positive while selling if the coin is facing drastic price falls.
That’s not all; you can connect your Meta Mask or Ledger to buy six tokens through Berminal’s trade option. These tokens include ZRX, IOST, MCO, GTO, XMX, and HOT.
It’s an application a Cryptocurrency trader can only dream about!
Reward Yourself with BERM
BERM is the native token of Berminal! That’s right; you can earn 1 BERM for tasks such as voting ten times each day and even win a lump sump of BERM through the daily pool by predicting the BTC price for that day. There’s also a quiz under the very short and helpful ‘Daily Berminal Brief’ which rewards you BERM tokens if you answer it right.
The BERM coin is fixed at $0.05.
Extra Features
That’s not all, a beginner, intermediate or Crypto advanced enthusiast can dig in deeper into several Cryptocurrencies by clicking on the ‘About’ button. It includes details such as circulation, total supply, active investors and a summary of the coin in a nutshell. It also contains links to the websites, whitepapers and various social media channels.
If you are not very fluent with English, it does not matter. There are currently 11 available languages available on it, which include Indonesian and even Spanish.
Overall Berminal utilities Crypto economics to use incentivised BERM tokens for relevant information to be circulated among its community. Berminal is all about its community similar to how Blockchain and Cryptocurrency have developed through the years -through the community! The decentralised cryptocurrency and impartial Blockchain and Crypto information platform called Berminal has grown to become a fan favourite.
