The 12 Best Crypto YouTube Channels for Blockchain Enthusiasts
YouTube is worth checking out if you'd like a daily dose of new crypto content.
Image credit: alexeynovikov/Depositphotos
There’s loads of crypto content on YouTube.
It doesn’t matter whether you want to learn about blockchain technology, hone your trading skills, or merely stay abreast of the latest crypto news—you’ll be able to find a YouTube channel to meet your needs.
Here are our top cryptocurrency and blockchain YouTube channels. If you don’t agree with our selections, make sure you leave your suggestions in the comments!
1. CryptoCandor
Hosted by Alex Pereira, CryptoCandor started life as her pet project but has now ballooned into a YouTube channel with 20,000 subscribers, a website, and an active Twitter feed.
She publishes one or two new videos per week. Topics cover everything from interviews to explainers.
2. Ian Balina
Ian Balina is an eminent name in the print media world. He has written about crypto and blockchains for The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, CNBC, Huffington Post, The Street, INC, and Entrepreneur Magazine.
His specialty is ICOs; he uses his own “money-ball metrics” approach to find the right tokens in which to invest.
His channel has 115,000 subscribers.
3. Suppoman
Suppoman’s channel is a mix of news, coin analysis, and his personal opinions on the markets. He also has an Udemy course about Bitcoin which is worth checking out.
4. Data Dash
Data Dash is one of the most well-known crypto YouTubers. With 315,000 subscribers, many believe that he offers the best independent video content on the platform.
All most all his content is delivered in the form of a “daily update”; he analyses the crypto markets and examines them against the backdrop of the broader world economy.
You also find occasional interviews, community live streams, and chart-based technical analysis.
5. Ivan on Tech
If you want a YouTube channel that’s focused on the underlying technology rather than the investment side of things, check out the Ivan on Tech channel. Although there’s a dash of market analysis, Ivan typically dives into the coins from a programmer’s perspective.
Ivan is also a popular face on the crypto conference circuit; he has spoken at lots of events around the world.
He releases a new video for his 200,000 subscribers every couple of days.
6. Crypt0
Crypt0 is the YouTube channel of Omar Bham—he’s a popular Twitter user with more than 30,000 followers.
Omar’s YouTube channel mainly focuses on news analysis and opinion; you will not find any investment advice or market insight.
On average, you can expect to see four or five new videos every week. Most are around 30 minutes in length.
Ameer Rosic doesn’t only produce crypto and blockchain YouTube videos; his channel also has a wealth of health and motivational content.
However, Rosic is a blockchain evangelist and long-time crypto influencer; his videos are direct and informative.
If you’re only interested in his crypto videos, head straight to the channel’s playlist section. There’s a blockchain news playlist and a general crypto chat playlist.
8. Crypto Tips
Heidi Chakos first sprang to fame thanks to her @heiditravels account on Steemit; a single post of hers once earned more than $12,000 of Steem Dollars (check out our review of Steemit to learn more about Steem Dollars).
Her YouTube channel has built on that success. Heidi’s videos focus on four key themes: blockchain innovation, new coins and ICOs, security, and the relationship between the crypto economy and the global economy.
9. Sunny Decree
Sunny Decree has a channel that specializes in technical and fundamental analysis of coins.
Because of their nature, those can often be somewhat dry topics—it’s not that exciting to watch a motionless graph while someone rants about abstract analysis methods that you don’t understand.
However, Sunny Decree is a funny guy; he has a gaming background and has an innate knowledge of how to keep his videos entertaining, even if the subject matter veers towards the boring.
With five or more new videos every week, there’s a constant stream of new footage to dig into.
10. Crypto Daily
Crypto Daily is as much about entertainment as it is about serious crypto information. With savage takedowns and withering comments on the day’s news, it’s a fun watch even for people who have no interest in the crypto and blockchain sector.
Of course, the channel does have some solid insight too. Hidden under the comedy, there’s plenty of technical analysis thoughtful insight. The comedy just means it is provided in an accessible way, and that’s a good thing.
11. Aantonop
Aantonop is the channel of Andreas Antonopoulos. He is one of the world’s foremost crypto advocates and is a long-time community leader.
These days, most of Andreas’ content revolves around Q&A sessions. A particular crypto or blockchain topic is chosen, then Andreas answers questions from his followers across the various social media platforms.
You also find video feeds of some of Andreas’ talks and conferences that he gives around the world.
12. Sanem Avcil
It’s hard to navigate the world of ICOs. They are one of the main tools used by crypto-criminals who want to con you out of your hard-earned money.
Yes, there are some things you can look out to spot an ICO scam —but perhaps it’s easier to let someone else do the hard work for you.
Sanem Avcil is a well-establish ICO analyst; 90 percent of the videos on his channel are dedicated to unpacking ICOs and discussing whether they are a viable long-term project.
Other Ways to Follow Crypto
YouTube is a great way to stay up-to-speed with crypto and the blockchain, though there are plenty of other sources you can check out.
If you’d like to learn about other ways to get your crypto fix, check out our articles about the best news sites for crypto and the best crypto users to follow on Twitter .
Posted in
