Quote from: TechComputer on February 02, 2019, 11:01:13 AM
What a kind of massive platform, looks pretty good by its looking. However, I wonder if you will doing such public sale of your tokens?
Thank you for your kind words. Actually we are starting our Private Sale round, that it's available on our website
Is this correct that there are two tokens in your project, STK and SCT? What's the difference and how they complete each other?
Yes, it's correct. We elaborated an hybrid system (STK + SCT)
STK are the tokens used for obtaining the monthly SCT airdrop, discounts, VIP status, Free tickets for exclusive VIP lotteries (instead of average lotteries). Users will be able to receive advantages by holding/using them on Fidelity Suite Platform.
SCT are tokens with a fixed value and they are backed up by FIAT. SCTs will be used by merchants as a form of loyalty reward and by users for redeeming prizes. The SCT fixed value will permit merchants to use Fidelity Suite platform safely without analyzing cryptocurrency price oscillations.
If you have more depth questions I invite you to take a look at our Whitepaper & FAQ section on our website. You are also invited to join our Telegram Group https://t.me/FidelitySuite
And this SCT is... Soma Community Token? There's already a token with SCT as their symbol, wouldn't it be a problem with the contract details?
Actually not a problem, because SCT and Soma Community Token will surely have different contract address, that bring them unique.
Regarding the ticker we don't aim to have SCT listed on exchanges for trading activities (SCT are meant to be used in the daylife as a reward by merchants).
In the end, for what concern the long term vision, we don't exclude the fact that we may develop our own native SCT blockchain.
So your Suitecredit will never leave your system, thus never be listed on CMC, and can never be mistaken with Soma Community?
The ones that works as a trading coin, a token that will be used to be encashed into fiat, etc, will be the STK?
Basically yes
