Home » Blog » Cryptocurrency Investment » Cryptocurrency 101: Learn Cryptocurrency Education Guide for Dummies
Cryptocurrency 101: Learn Cryptocurrency Education Guide for Dummies
by The 'Staunch
To get free guides, subsribe now
The term, Blockchain is actually, a combination of two words – Block (list of digital records) and Chain (cryptography linked together). This simply means that blockchain is list of digital blocks that are chained together using cryptographic nodes.
In financial industry today, unlike the blockchain development, there are lots of middlemen (e.g. payment processors, banks, and credit cards companies etc.) These intermediaries are institutions that help to establish trust between buyers and sellers, where-by ensuring accurate transactions.
Interested in buying crypto-coins? You can exchange over 400 cryptocurrencies at best cheap rate! Buy from Changelly instantly
These are the major reason why cost of transactions tends to be costly or cheap depending on speed.
What is Blockchain technology?
Blockchain simply eliminates the need for middlemen by providing a decentralized, trust-less ledger system with little or no exposure to fraudulent activities.
Although, blockchain is commonly used in connect with bitcoin and altcoin transactions, it is also used by some companies to disrupt huge data, supply of chain to gamblers and the internet.
How does blockchain work?
Blockchain is more like a network, and it has its own paths of links for specific transactions. These are known as Nodes.
Cryptographic Nodes
These are large network of computers that runs the blockchain. They validate and keep records of all transactions by solving complex mathematical algorithms.
Each of the nodes has a complete history of transactions, and that means, no one can change any data without letting the whole systems know (or they will definitely reject the change instantly).
Benefits of blockchain development
#1. Fast Transactions: It is very fast because already it has cut out the middlemen that tends to delay most financial transactions, and validation are even inbuilt into the systems.
#2. Cost effective: Blockchain is very cheap compared to what middlemen charge to move finance between financial institutions.
#3. Privacy: It is secured to the extent that transaction details only remains within the nodes in the networked systems and cannot be seen by humans.
Difference between virtual currency, cryptocurrency and fiat money
Fiat money
Fiat money is a currency that a government has declared to be legal tender, but not backed by a physical commodity. The value of fiat money is derived from the relationship between supply and demand, rather than from the value of the material that the money is made of.
Historically, most currencies were based on physical commodities such as gold or silver, but fiat money is based solely on the faith and credit of the economy. Because fiat money is not linked to physical reserves, it risks becoming worthless due to hyperinflation. If people lose faith in a nation’s paper currency, like the U.S. dollar bill, the money will no longer hold any value.
Virtual currency
In the process of trying to define “virtual currencies,” we run into several problems.
In fact, it is easier to define what they are not, rather than what they are. The problem becomes all the more evident when considering that a “currency” essentially requires a statutory definition. Virtual currencies, however, lack a normative definition. From the “synthesis” of this syllogism, we can easily deduce that virtual currencies are not actually “currencies” because of the legal vacuum surrounding them.
This makes them both extremely attractive and dangerous as they’re still in the “legal gray zone”. This absence of clear regulation, however, does not mean that they are not being closely monitored by regulatory agencies around the world.
Virtual currencies have traditionally been classified according to their relationship with “real money” and the “real economy”, taking into account if and how the money flow between virtual currencies and real currencies works, and how virtual currencies can be used to purchase real goods and services.
According to these characteristics, the existing virtual currency schemes have been divided into…
(a) closed virtual currency schemes (that have scarce, if any, interaction with the real economy; e.g. currencies used for online games);
(b) virtual currency schemes with unidirectional flow (that implies an irreversible conversion at a specific exchange rate from the “real currency” to the “virtual currency” that can then be used both to buy virtual and real goods and services; e.g. “credits”, “vouchers”, “points” or other “bonus” systems);
(c) virtual currency schemes with a bidirectional flow (virtual currencies can be bought and sold according to exchange rates with real currencies and can also be used to purchase both virtual and real goods and services; e.g. Bitcoins).
However, the virtual currencies that are most interesting to the watchful eye of the regulators are Bitcoin , Etherium, Litecoin, Dogecoin (A satirical meme created with the sole intention of trolling the “crypto investors”) and other top-ranking cryptocurrencies on the market.
Cryptocurrency
Since we (me and you), have fully discussed and learned about blockchain in detail. Let’s go ahead and also learn everything concerning cryptocurrency. There is no way you will talk about blockchain without talking about cryptocurrency.
In other words, this will be a fully detailed cryptocurrency for dummies guide. After reading this guide, you will have no need to ask about what it really mean, because i am going to let you know everything and what it really mean in detail. So what is cryptocurrency? Let’s get started!
What is a cryptocurrency?
A cryptocurrency is a form of virtual currency that uses encryption techniques as means of securing the verification of transactions. Cryptocurrencies can be centralized and decentralized, depending on the method of issuance of currency. It uses cryptography to secure and verify transactions as well as to control the creation of new units of a particular cryptocurrency.
Cryptocurrency does not need bank, third-party or any other financial institution to be transacted. User can simply transfer or trade cryptocurrencies between each online freely, and even without trusting each other with their financial informations. Cryptocurrencies do this by recording every transaction (like the one above between Peter and Paul) on a shared database called a blockchain.
Bitcoins are considered to be a “cryptocurrency” specifically because they rely on a mechanism of peer-to-peer cryptography for the validation of transfers. Users can exchange Bitcoins through a mechanism of verification known as “mining” which is based on a public ledger (also known as Blockchain) that records information about the sender, receiver, time and amount of “currency” in the transaction.
When the owner of a Bitcoin transfers it to a recipient, a group of so-called “miners” consults the ledger to verify the owner’s claim of ownership, solves a complex cryptographic problem, and annotates the transfer to the recipient by logging the transaction on the ledger (where the recipient will now appear as the new owner).
As an incentive for mining, which involves the “sacrifice” of computer power and therefore huge amounts of electricity, the “miner” that solves the cryptographic problem is awarded newly generated bitcoins. This is also known as the Proof of Work method of verification of transactions .
Bitcoin is, at least in theory, a completely decentralized currency. Read how you can also make money with bitcoin in any country .
Things that all cryptocurrencies have in common
There are many kinds of cryptocurrency, but all of them has these things in common. Every cryptocurrency must be aimed at these things below:
Digital: Cryptocurrencies are digital money (or digital currencies), which means that, it only exists in computers. Cryptocurrencies don’t have physical coins or paper notes just like the popular fiat money.
Peer-to-peer: Cryptocurrencies are only passed from person to person online.
Global: A cryptocurrency is the same in every country. They can be used freely between countries and across borders.
Encrypted: This is where we get the crypto part of the cryptocurrency definition. Crypto is Latin for hidden. So, cryptocurrency translates as hidden money.
Decentralized: In crypto-world, everyone is in charge of their own money, it isn’t kept in a bank. A bank is a center where lots of people keep money. Cryptocurrencies are not managed by a central server, that’s why we say they are decentralized.
Trust-less: The way cryptocurrencies are built means that you don’t have to trust anyone in the system in order for it to work.
Status of “money” and virtual currencies
The nature of “money” of decentralized cryptocurrency is to be questioned.
The legal nature of money is traditionally identified with three functions:
Money as a means of exchange;
Money as a unit of account;
Money as a store of value.
Bitcoins (and other decentralized cryptocurrencies) are used for the exchange between a “unit of account” on one hand and (virtual or real) goods and services on the other. The first two functions normally attributed to money can be said to also be functions of decentralized cryptocurrencies.
An argument can be made that the last function, that of a “store of value” can be attributed to Bitcoin and other decentralized cryptocurrencies, and this last feature has raised major concerns because the function of “store of value” may be dangerously close to that of an “investment instrument” (that is thoroughly regulated in almost all legal systems).
The argument that Bitcoin can be considered to have the function of “store of value” is usually deducted from the deflationary monetary policy of the currency and the tendency for decreased market volatility in value over time as the market cap gets bigger and bigger and more users join in every day.
Post navigation
Let's get connected
All investments involve risk, and may result in a loss. Anything published on this site is for educational purposes only and DOES NOT constitute any kind of financial advice. Historical and expected returns, as well as future projections may not reflect actual future performance. Read disclaimer to grab further information.
