IMPORTANT DISCLAIMERS
To bring cryptocurrency to the world.
Energi chose not to premine and not to do an ICO. Instead, we will conduct multiple rounds of Earndrops to disperse rewards for people who engage with our community. In order for us to process your Earndrop info for you in a fast and efficient manner, we ask that you upload quality information. This includes clear non-mirrored pictures, readable text in images, and non-offensive usernames. Failure to upload quality information may lead to you not receiving any Earndrop rewards.
READ                             MORE
Empowering equitable mass adoption of cryptocurency
Our goal is to introduce cryptocurrency to the masses. Cryptocurrency is a revolutionary new technology which opens up an enormous realm of financial freedom. However, even after 9 years, only ~0.5% of the world population has adopted cryptocurrency. At the same time, over 90% of cryptocurrencies today have a system of mining in place which excessively rewards those running their graphics card or CPU's with cryptocurrency. This functions as inflation – or could even be seen as a type of "tax" on the cryptocurrency. In avoiding such measures, Energi encourages the fair and equitable mass adoption of cryptocurrency.
READ MORE
Energi Emission Schedule
Approximately 1 million Energi will be released per month. The allocation is set to a model of                     "10/10/40/40."
10% will go to the Energi Backbone
10% to the Miners (eventually transitioning to Proof of Stake)
40% to Masternodes
READ MORE
Planned Future Changes
We will be transitioning to Proof of Stake in approximately a year. We feel Proof of Stake is superior to Proof of Work, and once we have firm footing we will transition to that. Stay tuned!
Important Disclaimers
*** We see Energi as experimental. Participate accordingly! ***
First, no one is obligated or committed to work on Energi for any period of time. Second, we are not doing an ICO or a pre-mine – both of which greatly reward the founders and are often looked down upon by the cryptocurrency community.
