Comment
1,545 total views, 9 views today
As Bitcoin (BTC) and the broader crypto space has continued to trade in a tight range, failing to post noticeable gains or losses, the fundamentals behind Tron (TRX) have seeming held strong. The ecosystem scored a massive win on Wednesday, as the blockchain surpasses a key milestone.
Tron Blockchain Surpasses Key Milestone
Mere days ago, Today’s Gazette reported that Misha Lederman, a leading crypto insider & fervent TRX advocate, noted that his favorite cryptocurrency has been “killing the DApp (decentralized application) era.” At the time, the co-founder of IAmDecentralized.org and an advisor to DAppEvolution noted that Tron’s blockchain housed over 193 applications, which were built in four months’ time.
There you have it folks! #TRON has officially reached 200 DApps currently live on @dapp_review 
The 24 Top DApps on TRON has more than 65,000 daily users combined
And the Top 3 of all DApps on @DappRadar are live on TRON
— Misha Lederman (@mishalederman) February 14, 2019
Just days later, the Justin Sun fan took to Twitter yet again, revealing that Tron has passed a key milestone, according to data from DApp Review. Lederman remarked that Tron has officially reached 200 activated DApps, which command a daily user count of over 65,000 combined. Moreover, the crypto industry commentator added that the top gaming, gambling, and decentralized exchange applications
This comes as research indicates that fewer than a mere 180 out of the 1812 Ethereum DApps that had associated ERC-2o token transactions saw use. Even more harrowing was that 13% of utilized DApps had upwards of 100,000 transactions on January 31st.
Tron’s sudden achievement of the blockchain milestone played no effect on the value of TRX. The popular cryptocurrency, currently the eighth most valuable by market capitalization, is down 2.62% in the past 24 hours, finding itself selling for $0.02425 for each token.
Tron News Roundup
Other than the aforementioned status update regarding Tron’s DApp ecosystem, what else is going for the project as it stands?
Justin Sun Obtains Bitcoin Lightning Torch, Tries To Reach Out To Elon Musk & Kobe Bryant: The so-called Bitcoin Trust Chain has seen participation from Jack Dorsey of Twitter, Anthony Pompliano, Andreas Antonopoulos, Binance’s Changpeng “CZ” Zhao, among others. The community-run initiative, created to tout the merits of the Lighting Network’s low-cost, immutable, secure, and near-instant nature, recently saw Justin Sun take up the torch. He tried to get Elon Musk and/or Kobe Bryant to participate. But failed in his efforts.
Tron CEO Offers Job To QuadrigaCX Victim : Bloomberg recently reported that Tong Zhou, a Silicon Valley developer that moved to Vancouver, Canada in search for a new life, lost approximately $400,000 in the QuadrigaCX imbroglio. While he expressed disbelief and sadness in a Bloomberg interview, Justin Sun graciously offered the former BitTorrent employee a job at the renewed torrent services provider.
Tron To Donate $250,000 For ALS : Justin Sun recently revealed that he would be donating $250,000 to the ALS Association’s #VoiceYourLove campaign, which is aiming to drive awareness and research regarding the Lou Gherig’s disease.
Title Image Courtesy of Descryptive.com Via Unsplash
Please help us to share this information
