1 1
China-based bitcoin mining giant Bitmain has reportedly closed its operations in Amsterdam, days after the ASIC chip maker allegedly laid off workers at a Texas mining center.
In December, allegations surfaced indicating that Bitmain was planning to lay off nearly 50 percent of its workforce in the first few months of 2019.
In November last year, Bitmain shut down its development center in Israel and laid-off all the employees including the firm’s vice president. At the time, the mining company’s statement outlined what it called a focus on long-term projects.
The latest decision to quit the Netherlands comes as the crypto market continues to grapple with the biting price crash that has seen bitcoin reach record lows since its all-time high in December 2017.
Bitmain has been one of the hardest hit companies with bitcoin mining profitability having plummeted as BTC reached lows of $3,000.
Redundancies meant to help long-term goals
According to a statement attributed to the company, the adjustments to staff and operations are aimed at building “a long-term, sustainable and scalable business.”
That focus apparently informed the firm’s decision to shut down the Amsterdam facility. The statement added:
 “We are really focusing on things that are core to our mission and not things that are auxiliary.”
The Amsterdam office handled Bitmain’s operations and development programs on the firm’s BTC.com mining pool.
A Bitmain spokesperson allegedly told Coindesk that even with this closure; the company would “continue to hire the best talent from a diverse range of backgrounds.”
As noted earlier, Bitmain’s decision to close its operations in Israel was followed by reports that the company would be laying off up to half of its workforce- about 2,500 individuals.
And this week, the firm announced that it was shutting down operations at its Rockdale facility in Texas.
Nothing to smile about
The chip maker has not released any official statement concerning the lay-off rumors that surfaced at the end of December 2018.
However, there seems to be no good news for the firm as sources say that the company’s plans for an IPO have hit a snug and could disintegrate as a result of regulatory uncertainty.
Other than that, an earlier board reshuffle is set to be followed by yet another as things at the company appear to hot up. According to reports, senior executives Jihan Wu and Micree Ketuan are now taking up positions as the company’s co-chairs.
Wu and Ketuan have been Bitmain’s co-CEOs, a position that will now be taken up by Wang Haichao, the firm’s current director of product engineering.
Notable, however, is that the situation at Bitmain could be replicated at several other crypto-related businesses and companies.
The community has already seen major exchange Huobi, Ethereum development studio ConsenSys, and blockchain-based social media platform Steemit lay-off employees to cope with the current price crash and cash crunch.
Disclaimer: This is not investment advice. Cryptocurrencies are highly volatile assets and are very risky investments. Do your research and consult an investment professional before investing. Never invest more than you can afford to lose. Never borrow money to invest in cryptocurrencies.
