Adrian Zmudzinski
Ledger Commits to Remedying Nano S Update That Decreased Storage Capacity
Ledger published a post apologizing for how a recent software update for the Ledger Nano S decreased the device’s storage capacity.
Ledger has apologized and committed to remedying a recent firmware update that decreased the storage capacity of its Ledger Nano S
4186 Total views
129 Total shares
News
French cryptocurrency hardware wallet company Ledger published a post on its official blog  on Feb. 14 apologizing for issues with a recent firmware update for its Ledger Nano S. Specifically, the update reportedly decreased the device’s storage capacity, which the firm has promised to remedy.
“This was not planned obsolescence, simply put, we messed up. We apologize and we’re committed to making it right,“ the post states. Some users had interpreted the firmware version 1.5.5 update as a way to bring planned obsolescence to the Ledger Nano S.
The reason for the suspicion is that the update was released shortly after Ledger’s announcement in January revealing its new Bluetooth-enabled Ledger Nano X wallet. Reportedly, the new wallet’s main advantage over the Nano S is increased memory capacity.
The company claims that the purpose of the update was to implement new cryptographic algorithms and, “most importantly, introduce a series of new critical security enhancements.”
The announcement also notes that the company’s team is working to restore Nano S’ storage capacity to a level similar to what it was before the update.
Lastly, in the post, the company also commits to adding support for the Ledger Nano S on the Ledger Live mobile app, which was launched at the end of January.
As Cointelegraph reported in December last year, researchers have reportedly shown how they were able to hack crypto hardware wallets  Trezor One, Ledger Nano S and Ledger Blue. Moreover, the day after the report, Ledger claimed that the reported vulnerabilities in its hardware wallets were not critical.
In November 2018, Ledger’s main competitor Trezor issued a warning to users after making what it called the “startling” discovery that rogue actors were creating and selling fake devices.
0  Comments
