Crypto Markets Continue to See Mixed Signals, Dow Jones Up Over 360 Points
By
-
February 16, 2019
Feb. 15 — crypto markets have continued trading sideways after hitting a multi-month high of daily trading volume of more than $36 billion yesterday, according to CoinMarketCap data.
Market visualization from Coin360
Bitcoin ( BTC ) is slightly down over the past 24 hours, and is trading at $3,626 at press time. At press time, the biggest cryptocurrency is up around 0.41 percent over the past 7 days, while down some 0.1 on the day. On Feb. 11, Bitcoin transaction fees saw a new low point.
Bitcoin 7-day price chart. Source: CoinMarketCap
Ethereum ( ETH ), the top altcoin by market cap, is trading at $122.37 at press time. After surging up to $124 per coin on Feb. 10, Ethereum is holding its weekly momentum, up more than 5 percent over the past 7 days, and up around 0.11 percent on the day.
Ethereum 7-day price chart. Source: CoinMarketCap
Ripple ( XRP ), the third top cryptocurrency by market cap, is seeing slight losses today, down 1.38 percent over the past 24 hours. Trading at $0.3, the coin is also down around 2.60 percent on the week.
Ripple 7-day price chart. Source: CoinMarketCap
Total market capitalization has been hovering around $120 billion, while daily trade volume exceeded $36 billion on Feb. 14 for the first time since July 2018.
Out of top 20 cryptos by market cap, Maker ( MKR ) is down the most, with its price tumbling almost 7 percent on the day. Binance Coin ( BNB ) is up more than 5 percent.
Earlier today, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) started reviewing a rule change proposal for NYSE Arca’s Bitcoin exchange-traded fund ( ETF ). The regulator is now expected to provide an initial decision to approve or reject the proposal within 45 days starting from today.
Yesterday, Luxembourg authorities passed a bill that facilitates the use of blockchain tech in financial services, granting blockchain-powered transactions the same legal status and protection as those done by traditional means.
In the meantime, stocks have surged today amidst increasing anticipation over a U.S.– China  trade deal, also reportedly seeing a two-month high this week. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 368 points or around 1.4 percent at press time as J.P. Morgan Chase and Goldman Sachs outperformed. The S&P 500 gained 0.84 percent, led by the energy and industrials sectors.
Major oil prices are also seeing a flush of green this Friday, with the Canadian Crude Index rising rising almost 4 percent at press time, while Brent Crude is up by 2.62 percent and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) has grown by 2.19 percent, according to oilprice.com . Analysts suggested that oil prices are getting closer to breakout levels, and the final day of trading this week will give a better idea of whether crude futures can keep rallying.
