Crypto
Someone Please Let Jamie Dimon Know That His New Cryptocurrency is a Fraud
Jamie Dimon's new toy isn't a "Bitcoin Killer," and it's not even a real cryptocurrency. Someone should probably tell him. | Source: AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin
Someone Please Let Jamie Dimon Know That His New Cryptocurrency is a Fraud
Tweet Share
JP Morgan Chase and Co. announced Thursday it would be the first major institutional bank to release its own cryptocurrency. Its new JPM Coin is an almost shockingly impotent reaction to Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies by the United States’ largest bank.
Jamie Dimon Gets a New Toy
Newsflash: Bitcoin Basher Jamie Dimon & JP Morgan Just Launched Their Own Cryptocurrency https://t.co/VciDixDldH
— CCN.com (@CryptoCoinsNews) February 14, 2019
JP Morgan says you can now give them a dollar, and they’ll give you a JPM Coin, which you can redeem for your dollar with them any time.
So they’re using JPM Coin to keep track of how much money you’ve deposited and withdrawn. So they are offering basic banking as a new crypto.
The embarrassing level of fail in this move is difficult to overstate.
It would be shocking but for the fact that we already knew for years where institutional banking’s head is at regarding cryptocurrency, how it thinks about crypto , the knowledge about crypto that it represses, and what it wants the world to think about Bitcoin.
We know from such well-worn shibboleths as:
“We’re excited about blockchain the technology underlying Bitcoin.”
Which would be like horse-drawn carriage makers a hundred years ago saying they’re excited about some of the underlying technology of these new horseless carriages…
But not the horseless part.
And then presenting a new “automobile” to the market that looks a lot like a Model T carriage and copies some of its finer details, but it’s pulled by horses.
The Very Idea of JPM Coin as a Currency Is A Fraud
They call it “ minting ” a coin to mean buying a digital JPM Coin from them, and “redeeming” the coin means selling it back to them for your U.S. Dollar.
This is almost too ridiculous to criticize cogently.
To begin with, you’re not minting anything. That usage, in this case, is in the realm of 100% fluff metaphor. When bitcoin is put into your bitcoin wallet, the fact that it was transferred to your account is indelibly minted into those bits.
Once the transaction has cleared, it’s irreversible. It’s much more permanent and immutable than a design stamped into a metal blank with a coin die and press.
But all that’s happening with JPM Coin, a stablecoin pegged to the dollar at a 1 to 1 ratio, is a client gives JPM a dollar, and JPM’s computer remembers it gave them a dollar and that they’re obligated to give it back when the customer wants to withdraw it.
That is literally exactly how things were at JPM before this so-called cryptocurrency. Clients would give them their money, and they’d give it back when the clients asked for it.
That’s just called banking .
The only meaningful difference may be that they’ve worked up some solutions to manage transfers between accounts faster and can verify more quickly whether there are errors.
JPM Coin Is Just JP Morgan Optimizing Its Database Software And Calling That A Crypto
It’s 2019 and JP Morgan Chase and Co. is finally getting around to spending some of that TARP bailout money on computer software to improve its electronic record keeping.
And it has hilariously decided to pass that off as JPM Coin, a new “cryptocurrency” brought to you by Jamie Dimon, the guy who called bitcoin a fraud.
The response from the crypto community was fierce and hilarious, ranging from “nothing like Bitcoin” (MIT Technology review), to “isn’t even a real cryptocurrency” (CCN), to 2019’s most popular token for money laundering:
The most popular token for money laundering this year will be JPM Coin
