Feb 15
Is the LOC (Locktrip) crypto currency likely to explode in value this year?
The Locktrip project LOC has outperformed BTC in the bearmarket and has never gone below it’s ICO price. Compared to most of the alt coins/tokens, LOC has done really well when talking about the price. There are many reasons for this and I’m pretty sure luck is not one of them.
This project has the right team willing to put sleep aside to make the work needed to succeed.
One of the advisors is the former president of Bulgaria, Rosen Plevneliev, which they have monthly meetings with. And he himself is a previous programmer and even won a price as nr.1 in Bulgaria in a competition. A fantastic person which I have great respect for. Follow this link to see him speak:
This month (February 2019) is a big month for Locktrip. They are aiming for release for all three major milestones:
Blockchain testnet
300k hotels (400k in total with average savings of 20% compared to any traditional booking sites).
flights ( with 1000+ airlines and approx 5% savings).
When I look back at when I did due dilligence about the project it makes me proud to see how far they have come. Everything that is said (and more to it) in the video has been done. 1 year ago CEO of Locktrip Nikola spoke about the project on the ICO Show:
Here are some facts:
-The value of the token has been more or less steady arround 0.7 – 1$. Average ICO price 0.5$.
-ranked top 200 (been steady arround 160 lately, and when it becomes a coin in Q2 2019 it reaches top 100). LockTrip (LOC) price, charts, market cap, and other metrics | CoinMarketCap
-The community is very strong and a lot of HODLers.
-The hotel bookings has been increasing every month. Personally I saved 50% on several bookings compared to booking com.
-great team with a lot of knowledge and which I highly respect.
-making their own blockchain that fits the project better. Already have several companies that is intereseted in using their blockchain.
-there are so much going on that will increase the value.
When LOCKTRIP starts with mass adoption this project will definitely explode in price.
Register here and start save on bookings:
This (beta) website provides booking statistics of LockTrip booking portal, created by a LockTrip project supporter. All…locktripper.com
These are text written by team members in telegram group, hope it helps:
We will dedicate substantial amount of resource on building a smooth, functional and enjoyable interface for our users.
That’s why we will put coding and deployment efforts towards these fixes when we finalize the current work. I am specifically saying coding and deplyment, because we have already began work on the UX wireframe, by gathering all the feedback, suggestions and improvements that should be made. This alone is a significant part of the whole process.
The project is in a stage where stability (e.g. having smooth/no failed bookings) and core service value (having 400,000+ hotels and airlines with even cheaper prices) is of highest priority for a number of reasons. After we get through that stage we will move on to the next stage – UX. UX is critically important to be perfected before we focus on acquiring new users to the platform. Although we have launched the core of our affiliate system, it is also in an infant stage and far from what where we want it to be.
We need to carefully plan and execute our coding and deployment since it is a very precious resource which needs to be handled according to the current priorities. Very soon UX will be a top priority and we will do our best to make all investors proud with our product.
While access to more exchanges does imply higher liquidity, it is essential to understand that the exchanges don’t change the fundamental value. LOC already has more volume and liquidity than a number of tokens listed on Binance. The current exchanges setup offer at least 3 reliable and high liquidity end points for people to buy and sell LOC.
HitBTC offering instant account setup with no limits, Google 2fa, instant depositing, withdrawals and constantly having order books worth of combined $150,000 on each side.
Bancor offering a decentralized and user friendly «one click» way for people to buy/sell with almost no cost and liquidity worth of a combined $250,000 on the bid and ask size
Kucoin being the exchange with one of the highest reputations in the industry with nice volumes growing as well as instant depositing, withdrawals, KYC and 2fa
Also listing on Binance does not guarantee anything, since there are number of tokens with near zero volume there. Nevertheless, Binance remains of high priority and together with Bittrex are the only 2 exchanges which we consider valuable at this stage and for which we will be making a continuous effort to get listed on.
On a side note we do get listing proposals on daily basis from other top 50 exchanges which we are discarding due to unrealistic fees which are unreasonable to burn money for.
What is more important is to have a
working product
fundamental demand for the token which comes from end users spending
a working token economics
a solid Blockchain
a realistic overall valuation/low downward risk
These factors have been the reason why LOC has been significantly overperforming over the last weeks/months.
This strategy together with our strict policy against fake/hollow partnerships announcements, meaningless Blockchain events publicity and overall hype over substance publicity stunts, will not change in the future.
Some insights:
Hotels will be able to self-list using the «hosting» section of our marketplace
2. This self-listing feature is already active for homes (vacation rentals)
3. Synchronization software will be integrated this year, which will allow both hotels and homes to list without additional overhead.
4. Once we open up the gates and the focus switches to that point, we will probably launch incentives for referring hotels and homes (similar to our current affiliate program)
5. We will also approach big hotel chains individually
6. Self-listed hotels/homes will most probably co-exist, yes. Which means that they will compete against their own distribution partners
7. We will always offer the cheapest price available among them
8. We plan to start the process this year
There are no other crypto projects that can be considered as competitors. Most of them can be our clients where we can provide them with technology and know-how should they want to migrate/ improve their projects.
2.Only the major players in the travel industry, like Booking.com: The largest selection of hotels, homes, and vacation rentals or Expedia – a serious technology companies – are our competitors
3. You can find a comparison between the crypto projects within the travel industry here
Due to low ranking on coinmarketcap or no normal/big exchanges the following projects are not included in the…locktripper.com
It’s kind of utility overview that outlines the differences between the proects, which might help you understand better why they are not competition.
LockTrip utilises the freemium business model, in which revenue is generated through the use of premium features such as paying via credit card, volatility protection, etc. LockTrip also has sufficient funds from the ICO to support the project until 2022. The team also holds half of the total LOC supply, with 25% in the project reserve (for future development, etc.), and 25% for the team.
Buying LOC
1) A one-time market buy order of 3,000 LOC —> Bancor will be the better option for most of the cases due to the predefined and contiuous liquidity.
2) Multiple orders that allow other traders to counter-balance any price movements —> HitBTC might turn out to be the better option as you can execute multiple orders which allows other traders to counterbalance the price spike and thus might allow you to secure a lower average. So the liquidity advantage of Bancor becomes less relevant.
As our exchanger algorithm will only use scenario 1 (one-time market buy orders), Bancor can quickly become the preferred option for bigger bookings.
What’s comming next….
We are aiming for release for all three major milestones within this month (February 2019)
Blockchain testnet
300k hotels
flights
The challenges are rather architectural, since we are adding new features on top of others. The system architecture was not originally built to handle flights. In addition the 300k hotels create a necessity for strong deduplication of the hotels as if we rush, you might see e.g the same Hilton hotel showing multiple times in the same search due to it being provided by multiple providers simultaneously.
This imposes the necessity to carefully double check that we don’t make any regression in terms of stability and security.
We are also working on multiple other new features. For example this week we will be deploying new security features to the marketplace, as well as automatic cancellations, new email templates and more. We are also constantly fine tuning the dynamic exchange conversion component.
Overall I believe we’ve achieved a tremendous progress in terms of proprietary technology.
We are also working on a unique completely decentralized booking engine which could handle hotel availability for free.
