JUST IMAGINE…
Being Able to Replace Your Employment Income
Or at the very least create a serious source of additional income on top of your current job just by taking a few minutes out of your day     to open trades generated by the Scalping Detector indicator.
What would it mean for you if you were able to build up enough income from trading Forex to finally quit your day job? I couldn’t stand waking up to an alarm clock      everyday and feeling so exhausted I had to force my eyes open.
I also hated the daily drive to work, sitting in traffic and getting through hordes of people. But what I hated the     most was not being able to say NO to my boss who breathed down my throat daily.     He always had me doing extra work that often caused me to be stuck at the office until midnight!
That really pissed off my wife and took away that precious time which I wanted to spend with my family.
But imagine changing all that by being able to quit your job and finally take back your freedom, all because you are able to make a good income from trading.
blindfold
95% OF TRADERS Can’t Make...
...Enough Money from Trading in order to leave
their exhausting 9-5 job or at least call their
Trading a serious additional source of income.
For most people, being successful in Forex is just a big dream.  A dream that is very far from reality.
Let me tell you exactly why most traders around the world are failing in Forex.
Actually, the answer is very simple.
Most traders can’t see powerful and potentially profitable trading opportunities that could
make them successful because...
They are blindfolded by a hurricane of emotions, unnecessary risk taking, poor strategic choices,
bad timing and the feeling that tells them they will be able to cover previous losses by
simply doubling their lots on the next trades.
But there is good news.
I have created Scalping Detector to help you “remove the blindfold” that’s been holding you back
and propel you towards success through smart and easy and efficient trading.
SPOT QUICK AND EASY WINNING TRADES WITH
MINIMAL RISK SIMPLY BY USING THE SUPER
BEGINNER FRIENDLY SCALPING DETECTOR
Scalping Detector eliminates the emotions of trading, significantly reduces trading risk, and signals you
to powerful trading opportunities before they become obvious to the naked eye.     It catches strong mini trends before they even form and reveals the best opportunities to you.      It can also detect winning trade opportunities on smaller market movements that you otherwise would most likely miss.
Let’s look at some of the amazing trades that you would be making with Scalping Detector and the possible profit you could make.    Pay close attention to the special Smart Exit system that Scalping Detector has been equipped with.
Let’s start!
29, 20 and 34 Pips Profit.
Here are 5 more winning trades on the same pair.
27, 33, 41, 45 and 26 Pips Profit.
Just imagine yourself making trades like these!
Let me show you some more.
Euro/US Dollar.
29, 88, 48 and 17 Pips Profit.
And now, have a look at this profit…
British Pound/US Dollar.
41, 62 and a Huge 122 Pips Profit!
Final Chance!
Yes! Get "Scalping Detector" Right Now!
Those are some fantastic trades, aren’t they? They are very easy to spot and take, because of how intuitive the indicator’s design is.   In a moment, I will show you exactly what Scalping Detector does and how it can help you thrive as a trader at any level.
But first, I want to introduce myself and show you why you can trust me, because as you probably already know…    The Forex industry is littered with liars and it's hard to find someone you can rely on and listen to with complete trust.
MY STORY
Let me introduce myself...
If you don't know me or are not familiar with my work, my name is Karl Dittmann. I started trading and teaching students how to trade way before most “gurus” out there had even heard of Forex.   I too was once an inexperienced trader and I know what it's like to lose money in Forex. I almost gave up before I    discovered some key tools and secrets that helped me learn how to make consistent profit to maintain a quality life for my family.
No, I did not become a millionaire overnight, but consistent profit over a long time enabled me to AMASS quite a fortune in Forex and has helped me lead a fulfilling life.    You might be wondering, why am I offering my trading systems to the world and trying to help you personally? That’s a great question!
See, once you become financially free, you get the freedom to do what you are passionate about.    And my greatest passion is making a difference in people's lives, helping them achieve their greatest dreams that they have been chasing their whole lives.      When I hear from a friend or a student who changes his life using my trading tools and advice, then contacts me to say how thankful he is…
I get goosebumps and an indescribable amazing feeling for the rest of the day. This feeling reminds me that this is my true passion. This is what keeps me waking up every morning with inspiration to help people become successful traders.   Today, I want to help you too by giving you the opportunity to use my latest and most powerful indicator… The Scalping Detector.
easy TRADING
Scalping Detector Will Help You
Winning Trades Within Minutes.
No Matter Your Experience Level.
Have you ever heard the saying, “Trend is your friend” ?
Well this is 100% true. You should always be trading with the trend. Even if you don't have the best trade entry, if you trade with the trend, there's a much higher chance your trade will succeed.
The issue that most traders have is identifying the trend and knowing when to enter and exit a trade before the market changes its direction.     You will no longer have this issue as this is exactly what Scalping Detector is going to help you with.
Scalping Detector is a trend-based indicator that uses a special algorithm that clearly and intelligently identifies every     aspect of a trend from beginning to end - and alerts you to trades with high probability of success.
Most importantly it also helps you avoid bad trades by filtering out flat movements, when there is no noticeable trend.      This will help you tremendously because many traders screw this up by trading into a flat market where they have no clue if it's going to go up or down.
Scalping Detector will give you accurate BUY/SELL signals on any currency pair at the precise time that will allow you to extract the most profit with the least amount of risk.
To make Scalping Detector even more powerful and flexible, we equipped it with built-in smart exit technology that will help you identify      the best time to exit your trades and lock in profits as soon as possible.
We’ve developed this feature to enable this indicator to predict the best time to exit your trades before the price retraces or jumps where we don't want it to go.
See the stars highlighted on the image above? At any point in time while you are in a trade you can choose to exit and lock in profit when those stars appear.
The earlier stars allow you to lock in profit fast at the first sign of change, but if you love that adrenaline rush – just wait a little more time and potentially lock in even more profit.
More stars will appear and continue to get larger – suggesting that you should consider closing the trade very soon.
This is a very powerful feature and it can help you win trades you would have otherwise lost, spend less time in trades and more time locking in profit.
IMPORTANT
Important things you should know about Scalping Detector
It never repaints. Once a signal is generated – it stays there.
It gives you laser accurate trade signals on M1 and M5 timeframes.
Smart exit technology to help you exit at the best time.
Depending on your trading style, Scalping Detector can be quickly and easily set to suit your approach to trading.    You can experiment with these preset trading styles: Conservative, Medium, or Aggressive modes.
More advanced users can switch the trading style to “Custom” and freely adjust the core setting that dictates the speed and frequency of the signals.
Not only the trades themselves are important, but the timing. If there's a trade opportunity and you miss it,    then how can you make money, right? To ensure this never happens, Scalping Detector will alert you of every new signal in 4 different ways.
SIGNAL ALERTS
3 Methods For Alerting You To All
The New Trading Opportunities
Scalping Detector has multiple built-in alert systems that promptly notify you of new trading opportunities within seconds.    Each alert gives you the Entry Price, Stoploss, TakeProfit, Currency Pair, and the Timeframe the signal was generated on.
1. MT4 Platform Pop-up Alert with Sound
This box will pop up from the broker platform on your computer to notify you of a new trading opportunity, so you can take quick action.
2. Instant Email Notification
You can also choose to receive an email alert notifying you.
3. Push Notification to Your Mobile Phone
Finally, if for some reason you didn’t notice those notifications because you were not in front of your computer, you can have an automatic notification sent to your mobile phone.
So, do you think you will ever miss a trade opportunity again with all these notification options? Not ever again!
I am 100% confident about this.
EASY TO USE
If all you had to do is…
Use An Easy To Operate Tool That Showed You Exactly When
To Enter And Exit Winning Trades From The Forex Market Consistently…
Wouldn't it be worth your time and money to invest in?
I created Scalping Detector just for this reason… to make it as easy as possible to make money in Forex from as soon as day one.
And that's exactly what I'm going to help you do by giving you instant access to Scalping Detector today.
Benefits
What you will get
Here's what you will get when you join...
Software - You will get a full non-expiring lifetime version of the exact software with the same settings that I used to execute all those winning trades that I just showed you.
This also includes the built-in smart exit technology plus the signal notification system with 3 different options to choose from.
Support - I want to see you thrive at trading. And that's why I will give you my full support for anything at all.     Whenever you need help just reach out to me to my personal email address. It is karl@karldittmann.com
Step-by-Step Beginner Friendly User Guide - My beginner friendly user guide will take you step-by-step and show you      exactly how to install, setup and profit with the Scalping Detector system (it's really easy).
Updates - And of course updates are included for life, absolutely free. If we find ways to improve Scalping Detector even further,     you will get access to the new updated versions immediately.
INSTANT ACCESS
Give Me My Copy Of Scalping Detector!
Okay, now you are 100% ready to gain access to this indicator software.
But you are probably curious to know the price.
Unfortunately, I can't give it away for free. I have staff, designers, programmers and tons of other expenses. It costs me a lot of time and money to develop, design and optimize trading tools like this one.
My team and I are doing everything we can to ensure you get reliable and powerful trading tools that can truly help you be successful in Forex.
But that doesn't mean I'm going to make it unaffordable. I want to make this decision as easy as possible for you.  So, I'm going to give you full lifetime access for just $147.
Final Chance!
