Top Players
Terms of Service
Please read the Terms of Service below. If you agree with these Terms press Accept. By Selecting Accept, you also confirm that you are 21 years of age or older.
Last updated 01.02.2019
Terms of Service
1.1 By using and/or visiting any section of the Website play.goc.network ("Website") or by using an account on the Website you agree to be bound by:
1.1.1 the General Terms and Conditions, on this page;
1.1.2 the Privacy Policy;
1.1.3 Any game rules;
1.1.4 Any terms and conditions of promotions, bonuses and special offers which may be found on the Website from time to time.
1.2 All of the terms and conditions listed above shall together be referred to as "the Terms", "Terms" or "these Terms".
1.3 Please read the Terms carefully before accepting them. If you do not agree to accept and be bound by the Terms, please do not open an account or continue to use the Website. Your continued use of the Website constitutes acceptance of the Terms.
1.4 Any reference made to contact customer support refers to the contact link https://t.me/joinchat/IF2rpxD9_DIznxtXF4bz0w
2 PARTIES
2.1 This website is operated by PLAY Foundation SRL ("us", "our", "we" or the "Company"), a company under the jurisdictional laws of Costa Rica.
2.2 In these Terms:
2.3.1 "Your Jurisdiction" means the jurisdiction in which you are domiciled, reside or work.;
2.3.2 reference to "Deposit Funds" means the funds that you deposit into Your Player Account, in each case that have not been spent on (committed to) bets including bets which are not yet settled, plus Winnings;
2.3.3 reference to "Bonus Funds" means any funds that we credit to Your Player Account by way of a bonus or promotion and any winnings generated from bonuses which is not immediately withdrawable or redeemable in Cryptocurrency and all winnings made with the bonus funds which are subject to uncompleted wagering requirements;
2.3.4 reference to "All Funds" means all Deposit Funds; and
2.3.5 reference to "Winnings" is to any and all winnings from wagers made with money which you deposited into Your Player Account and winnings from any bonus which are not subject to wagering requirements or in respect of which the wagering requirements have been satisfied.
2.3.6 "cryptocurrency" is a decentralised digital asset designed to work as a medium of exchange that uses strong cryptography to secure financial transactions, control the creation of additional units, and verify the transfer of assets.
2.4.7 Reference to "cryptocurrency wallet" means a medium which stores public and private keys that can be used to receive or spend a cryptocurrency.
2.4.8 "private key" is a cryptographic system that uses pairs of keys; public keys which may be disseminated widely, and private keys which are known only to the owner.
3 CHANGES TO THE TERMS OF USE
3.1 We may need to change the Terms for a number of reasons, including but not limited to, for commercial reasons, or in order to comply with new laws and regulations. The most up-to-date Terms are the ones available on the site, and the date on which they came into force is stated at the top of these Terms.
3.2 We will notify you of material changes to these Terms prior to them taking effect. We will notify you of any material changes, or of any other changes to the Terms which we wish to notify you of, by email or by placing a notice on the Website. Prior to any material changes coming into effect, you will be requested to confirm that you have read and accept the new terms and conditions. In the event that you do not, you may withdraw your funds and close your account at any point in time.
4 YOUR ACCOUNT
4.1 In order to place a bet or play games via the Website, you will need to open an account on the Website ("Your Player Account"). In the event that you are registering or depositing using cryptocurrency or any other similar form of electronic verification, you authorise us to receive your provided personal details from any third party system and, on the basis of that information, to create Your Player Account.
4.2 If you reside in a location where lotteries, gambling, or betting over the internet is illegal, please do not click on anything related to the activities on this site. You must be at least 21 years of age to click on any gambling related items on this site even if it is legal to do so in your location. Recognising that the laws and regulations involving online gaming are different everywhere, players are responsible for checking and knowing the laws that exist within their own jurisdiction or region to ascertain the legality of the activities provided at play.goc.network.
4.3 A player must register personally by following the on-screen instructions.
4.4 When you open Your Player Account you will be asked to provide us with the information required to send cryptocurrency, to receive cryptocurrency, and to initiate smart contracts. A player that is depositing or playing with us by logging in authorises us to collect the necessary identification information to create a Player Account on his behalf.
4.5 You hereby acknowledge and accept that, by using the services at the Website, you may both win and lose Tokens.
4.6 All players are requested to open an account in Cryptocurrency.
4.8 Any subsequent accounts beyond your initial account on this Website or otherwise in association with this brand shall be considered "Duplicate Accounts". Any Duplicate Accounts used to for the purpose of any or all violations stated in sections 11.1.1, 11.1.2, 11.1.3, 11.1.4, and 11.1.5 in the terms of service may be closed by us immediately and:
4.8.1 any Bonus Funds will be confiscated and forfeited by you and any remaining Deposit Funds (less any Winnings) will be returned to you on request subject to these Terms and any legal or regulatory obligations with which we are required to comply;
4.8.2 Any Winnings or bonuses which you have gained or accrued or (in relation to outstanding (unsettled) bets) may gain or accrue and which have been or may be credited to Your Player Account and/or withdrawn by you from Your Player Account during such time as the Duplicate Account was active will be forfeited by you and may be deducted from Your Player Account or reclaimed by us, and you will return to us on demand any such funds which have been withdrawn from the Duplicate Account.
4.9 You must maintain Your Player Account and keep your details up-to-date. If you wish to close Your Player Account you must send a request to do so to playfoundation@protonmail.com. On account closure, any Bonus Funds will be cancelled.
4.10 You may re-open a closed account by contacting customer support during the data retention period, as notified in the Privacy Policy.
4.11 We hold customer funds in a separate account from Company funds accounts. This means that steps have been taken to protect customer funds but that there is no absolute guarantee that all funds will be repaid in the event of insolvency.
5 VERIFICATION OF YOUR AGE AND IDENTITY
5.1 You confirm that:
5.1.1 You are at least 21 years of age, or any higher age required by laws that apply to you (the "Legal Age"). When opening an account, you will be required to confirm that you are the Legal Age;
5.1.2 The details supplied when opening Your Player Account are correct;
5.1.3 You are the rightful owner of the funds in Your Player Account;
5.1.4 You are a resident in a jurisdiction which allows gambling;
5.1.5 You are not a resident in a Restricted Jurisdiction; and
5.1.6 The money deposited is not derived from any activity which is illegal.
5.1.7 You are not a resident of Costa Rica
5.2 The Company complies Costa Rican laws, regulations and guidelines for the prevention of money laundering and the funding of terrorism. Suspicious transactions shall be investigated by the Company and, if necessary, a suspicious transaction report will be made by the Company to the competent Costa Rican Authorities (or other appropriate Authorities) (the "Authorities") without notice or further reference to you. Furthermore, in the event of any suspicious transactions, the Company may suspend, block or close the account(s) of the relevant player(s) and withhold All Funds in the relevant Player Account(s) as may be required by law and/or by the competent Authorities.
5.3 We may use third party providers to undertake these Checks on our behalf. By agreeing to these Terms you authorise us to provide your personal details to such third parties, who will keep a record of the information we provide to them. In the event that we do not receive the required information from you, or we are otherwise unable to verify your information, we may terminate these Terms, close Your Player Account and return to you on request any Deposit Funds in Your Player Account at the time we placed a lock or restriction on Your Player Account, plus any funds deposited after the lock was placed on Your Player Account, subject to these Terms and except where it is necessary for us to delay or withhold the payment to you of all or some of your Deposit Funds to comply with our legal and regulatory obligations including our anti-money laundering and fraud prevention obligations.
INACTIVITY AND DELETION OF PLAYER ACCOUNTS
6.1 If Your Player Account remains inactive (i.e. you have not logged-in to Your Player Account via the Website) for more than 30 months and the balance in Your Player Account is zero, Your Player Account may be closed and deleted.
6.2 If Your Player Account remains inactive (i.e. you have not logged-in to Your Player Account via the Website) for more than 30 months and there are any Deposit Funds in Your Player Account, we reserve the right to close Your Player Account in which case we will attempt to contact you to arrange for any Deposit Funds to be returned to you (subject to these Terms and except where it is necessary for us to delay or withhold the payment to you of all or some of your Deposit Funds to comply with our legal and regulatory obligations including our anti-money laundering and fraud prevention obligations) and any Bonus Funds will be forfeited.
6.3 If Your Player Account remains inactive for a total period of 30 months, we will close Your Player Account. Any remaining funds will be kept by us for you for a period of five (5) years.
6.4 In respect of Account Closures, you must ensure that the Deposit Funds balance of your account has been withdrawn prior to making your request. Where you hold a balance equal to or less than the currency equivalent of $1 USD we will deduct this from your account automatically and Close the Account. Any remaining Bonus Funds will be cancelled on account closure.
7 USERNAME, PASSWORD, AND CUSTOMER INFORMATION
7.1 After opening Your Player Account, you must not disclose (whether deliberately or accidentally) your username, password and private key to anyone else.
7.2 Players that are logging in using their cryptocurrency wallet address may use said address to log-in to the Site. Players shall keep details of their cryptocurrency wallet information secure and shall be solely responsible for the security of those details.
7.3 We shall not be held responsible if there is any unauthorised use of Your Player Account for any reason not directly imputable to us. You are solely responsible for the use and operation of Your Player Account, as well as for the security of the credentials to access Your Player Account.
8 DEPOSITS TO YOUR PLAYER ACCOUNT
8.1 Deposits are made by transfer of tokens to the Company's account by way of the deposit methods stated on the Website. The deposit method currently available is via cryptocurrency blockchain. The Company reserves the right, to change the accepted methods of payment at its sole discretion. The Company further reserves the right to accept certain methods of payment only subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions. The Company does not warrant that all methods of payment are available at all times.
8.2 We do not accept cash funds or cheques sent to us.
8.3 The Company can, under certain circumstances, credit Your Player Account with so called bonus funds (which will form part of any Bonus Funds in your account). Before we credit Your Player Account with any bonus funds, you must read and agree to the terms upon which the bonus fund or promotion will be granted to you. We will notify you of these terms either through a third party dervice or via "pop-up" on our Website. We run a number of promotions on the Website at any time;
Specific bonus and promotion terms and conditions will be published on the Website in conjunction with the launch of any bonus or promotion. If you request to withdraw all or some of the Deposit Funds used to activate a promotion or bonus before fulfilling any of the terms and conditional applicable to any Bonus Funds (including, but not limited to, any wagering requirements) or otherwise whilst a promotion or bonus is active or pending on Your Player Account you will forfeit any Bonus Funds in Your Player Account associated with the relevant promotion or bonus in their entirety. Any Deposit Funds that you have deposited which is not related to any bonus (i.e. which was not required to be made in order to claim Bonus Funds or to participate in any promotion) are free to be withdrawn at any point in time and will not result in the forfeiture of any Bonus Funds.
8.4 Your Player Account is not a bank account and is therefore not insured, guaranteed, sponsored or otherwise protected by any banking insurance system. Additionally, any funds deposited with us in Your Player Account will not earn any interest.
8.5 In relation to deposits of funds into Your Player Account, you shall only use such Cryptocurrency Wallet's which lawfully belong to you.
8.6 If you make deposits into Your Player Account using any payment method belonging to someone else (a third party), we retain the right to request further information and documentation from you and from the other person (the third party) to confirm that you are duly authorised to use that payment method. We will place a lock on Your Player Account so that no deposits or withdrawals may be made until we are satisfied that you are duly authorised to use the payment method in question. If you are unable to provide us with satisfactory proof of your authority to use the other person's (the third party's) payment method, then we reserve the right to close Your Player Account and any Winnings and Bonus Funds will be confiscated and forfeited by you, as will any funds committed by you to bets which at the relevant time are yet to be settled. We also reserve the right to delay or withhold the payment to you of any Deposit Funds on receipt of a withdrawal request from you in order to comply with our legal and regulatory requirements.
9 WITHDRAWALS FROM YOUR ACCOUNT
9.1.1 All deposits made into Your Player Account have been confirmed as cleared and none have been charged-back, reversed or otherwise cancelled;
9.1.2 Any Checks referred to in paragraph 5 above have been completed;
9.1.3 We are not otherwise required to delay or withhold the payment to you of all or some of your Deposit Funds in order to comply with our legal or regulatory requirements.
9.2 A player may not withdraw any Bonus Funds other than in accordance with the terms and conditions applicable to the relevant Bonus Funds.
9.3 You are responsible for reporting your Winnings and losses to your local tax or other Authorities.
9.4 If Your Player Account has been dormant, closed, blocked or excluded for any reason other than for compliance with our client verification measures and for any period of time, you may contact our support team to request to recover any Deposit Funds that might still be in Your Player Account. Our support team will investigate any such request and we will contact you (subject to our legal and regulatory obligations) with information about how the Deposit Funds will be transferred back to you. You will need to answer a number of security related questions for us to be able to verify that you are the legal owner of Your Player Account. If there is a dispute over Your Player Account or the funds held within it:
9.5.1 the dispute will be dealt with in accordance with our Complaints Policy as detailed at paragraph 23 of these Terms. A more detailed Complaints Policy can be made available to you on request.
9.6 In relation to withdrawals of funds from Your Player Account, you shall only use such Cryptocurrency Wallets that are valid and lawfully belong to you.
9.7 Withdrawals from Your Player Account can be made in a number of different permitted Tokens chosen by the user on our Website.
10 PLACING A BET OR GAMING
10.1 It is your responsibility to ensure that the details of any transaction you enter into are correct. Although the Company endeavours to ensure that the information available on its Website is correct, the Company assumes no liability for the any errors or any out of date, incorrect or incomplete information, including (without limitation) any results made available on the Website or the accuracy of any scores, statistics and intermediate results during in-play betting. Please refer to our Betting Rules which can be found in the footer of the Website for information relating to the settlement of bets. For the purpose of in-play or in-running betting, the player should be aware that there may be delays to live transmissions and the extent of any delay may vary between players and between events.
10.2 You can access your last 30 transactions of transaction history on the Website.
10.3 We reserve the right to refuse the whole or part of any bet or wagering transaction requested by you at any time in our sole discretion. No bet or wagering transaction is accepted by us until the amount equivalent to the stake is deducted from the relevant balance in Your Player Account.
10.4 Once your bet or wager is accepted, you cannot cancel the bet or wager without our written consent.
11 COLLUSION, CHEATING, FRAUD AND CRIMINAL ACTIVITY
11.1 The following activities are not permitted and constitute a material breach of these Terms:
11.1.1 Colluding with third parties;
11.1.2 Using unfair advantage or influence (commonly known as cheating), including the exploitation of a fault, loophole or error in our software, the use of automated players (sometimes known as 'bots');
11.1.3 Undertaking fraudulent or illegal activities, including but not limited to the use of a stolen private key or otherwise unauthorised activites, as a source of funds;
11.1.4 Taking part in any criminal activities including, but not limited to, money laundering;
11.1.5 Conducting account fraud, manipulation of our software or Website, exploitation of loopholes or other technical forms of abuse or other behaviour which amounts to deliberate cheating.
11.2 We will take all reasonable steps to prevent such activities; detect them and ensure that the relevant players are dealt with appropriately. We may report knowledge or suspicion of an offence to the relevant authorities, we may suspend or close Your Player Account, confiscate your Winnings and any Bonus Funds (which shall be forfeited by you) and in certain cases, in fulfilment of our regulatory and legal obligations, block access to All Funds until we are directed on how to proceed by the authorities. We will not be liable for any loss or damage which you or any other player may incur as a result of any of the behaviour outlined in paragraph 11.1 above and any action we take in respect of the same will be at our sole discretion.
11.3 If you suspect a person is colluding, cheating or undertaking a fraudulent activity, please report it to us by e-mailing playfoundation@protonmail.com.
11.4 We reserve the right to inform relevant Authorities, other online gaming or gambling operators, other online service providers and banks, credit card companies, electronic payment providers or other financial institutions of your identity and of any suspected unlawful, fraudulent or improper activity, and you agree to cooperate fully with us to investigate any such activity.
12 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
12.1 You should not use the Website for any purpose which is considered to be defamatory, abusive, obscene, racist, sexist, discriminatory, or offensive. You must not use any abusive or aggressive language or images; swear, threaten, harass or abuse any other person, including other users, or behave in such a manner towards any Company staff used to provide the Website or Customer Services.
12.2 You shall not corrupt the Website, flood the Website with information with the intention of causing the Website to not function, nor use any features which may affect the function of the Website in any way for example (but not limited to) releasing or propagating viruses, worms, logic bombs or similar. Any multiple submissions or spam are strictly prohibited. You must not interfere or tamper with, remove or otherwise alter in any way, any information in any form which is included on the Website.
12.3 You shall use the Website for personal entertainment only and shall not be allowed to reproduce the Website or any part of it in any form whatsoever without our express consent.
12.4 You must not attempt to gain unauthorised access to the Website, the servers on which the Website is stored or any server, computer or database connected to the Website. You must not attack the Website via a denial-of-service attack or similar. We will report any breach of this provision to the relevant law enforcement Authorities and we will co-operate with those Authorities by disclosing your identity to them. In the event of such a breach, your right to use the Website will cease immediately.
12.5 We will not be liable for any loss or damage caused by a distributed denial-of-service attack, viruses or other technologically harmful material that may infect Your computer equipment, computer programs, data or other proprietary material due to Your use of the Website or to Your downloading of any material posted on such Website, or on any Website linked to the Website.
12.6 It is prohibited to sell, transfer and/or acquire accounts from other players.
13 CLOSURE AND TERMINATION
13. It is Company policy in the interests of security, that if no login has been recorded on Your Player Account for thirty months (an "Inactive Account"), subject to paragraphs 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3, we shall remit the remaining balance in that account to you and close Your Player Account. If you cannot be satisfactorily located any remaining Deposit Funds in that account will be paid into a suspense account where funds will be kept for a period of five (years). After the five (year) period elapses, the Company will appropriate the funds and use those funds for responsible gaming endeavours.
13.2 Your Inactive Account (30 months without recording a log-in) will be terminated with written notice (or attempted notice) using Your Contact Details.
13.3 In the event of any such termination by us, other than where such closure and termination is made pursuant to paragraph 11 (Collusion, Cheating, Fraud and Criminal Activity) or paragraph 18 (Breach of the Terms of Use) of these Terms, we will on receipt of a request from you, return any Deposit Funds in Your Player Account to you.
13.4 The Company may refuse to open an account or may opt to close a players' account which has already been opened at its own discretion. Notwithstanding this all contractual obligations already undertaken or entered into will be honoured subject to these Terms.
14 ALTERATION OF THE WEBSITE
14.1 We may, at our absolute discretion, add or remove, alter or amend, any of the products offered via the Website at any time.
15 IT FAILURE OR INTERRUPTION
15.1 Where unexpected system flaws, faults or errors occur in the software or hardware which we use to provide the Website we will take immediate steps to remedy the problem.
15.2 We do not accept any liability for IT failures which are caused by your equipment used to access the Website or faults which relate to your internet service provider.
16 ERRORS OR OMISSIONS
16.1 A number of circumstances may arise where a bet or wager is accepted, or a payment is made, by us in error.
16.2 Neither we (including our directors, employees, partners or agents) nor our partners or suppliers shall be liable for any loss including (without limitation) loss of any Bonus Funds or Winnings that results from any error by us or an error by you. You will forfeit any Bonus Funds or Winnings that result from any such error. In such a scenario, the stake or wager will be refunded to Your Player Account.
17 EXCLUSION OF OUR LIABILITY
17.1 Your access to and use of the products offered via the Website, is at your own risk.
17.2 We will provide the Website with reasonable skill and care and substantially as described in the Terms. We do not make any other promises or warranties the Website, or the products offered via the Website, and hereby exclude (to the extent permitted by law) all implied warranties in respect of the same.
17.3 We shall not be liable to You in contract, tort (including negligence) or otherwise for any business losses, including but not limited to loss of data, profits, revenue, business, opportunity, goodwill, reputation or business interruption or for any losses in relation to your use of the Website.
18 BREACH OF THE TERMS
18.1 You shall compensate us in full for any claims, liabilities, costs, expenses (including legal fees) and any other charges that may arise as a result of your breach of any of the Terms.
18.2 Where you are in material breach of the Terms, we reserve the right, but shall not be required, to:
18.2.1 Provide you with notice (using Your Contact Details) that you are in breach requiring you to stop the relevant act or failure to act;
18.2.2 Suspend Your Player Account so that you are unable to place bets or play games on the Website;
18.2.3 Close Your Player Account with or without prior notice from us;
18.2.4 Confiscate, and you shall forfeit, from Your Player Account, or (if applicable) recover from you the amount of any Bonus Funds and any Winnings in Your Player Account or that have been paid to you by us, in which case such Bonus Funds and/or Winnings shall be returned to us on demand; and
18.2.5 On receipt of a request from you, return any Deposit Funds (less any Winnings) to You to the account(s) from which they were deposited, minus any reasonable charges and subject to these Terms and any legal and regulatory obligations with which we are required to comply.
18.3 Any breach of clauses 4.2, 4.8, 11, 12, 29.3, 32.3, 32.4, 32.5, 32.6, 32.7 and 33.2 are considered material breaches.
19 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
19.1 All Website design, text, graphics, music, sound, photographs, video, the selection and arrangement thereof, software compilations, underlying source code, software and all other material contained within the Website are subject to copyright and other proprietary rights which are either owned by us or used under licence from third party rights owners. To the extent that any material contained on the Website may be downloaded or printed then such material may be downloaded to a single personal computer only and hard copy portions may be printed solely for your own personal and non-commercial use.
19.2 Under no circumstances shall the use of the Website grant to any user any interest in any intellectual property rights (for example copyright, know-how or trademarks) owned by us or by any third party whatsoever.
19.3 No rights whatsoever are granted to use or reproduce any trade names, trademarks or logos which appear on the Website except as specifically permitted in accordance with the Terms of Use.
20 YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
20.1 We do not rent, sell, or share your Personal Information with third parties (ìRecipientsî) except as described in this Privacy Policy. The Personal Information will be disclosed to Recipients only to the extent required for the specific purpose, as stipulated in this Privacy Policy.
20.2 How we handle your personal information is set out in our Privacy Notice.
21 USE OF COOKIES ON THE WEBSITE
21.1 The Website uses 'cookies' to assist the functionality of the Website. A cookie is a small file of text which is downloaded onto your computer when you access the Website and it allows us to recognise when you come back to the Website. Information on deleting or controlling cookies is available at www.aboutcookies.org. Please note that by deleting our cookies or disabling future cookies you may not be able to access certain areas or features of the Website.
21.2 For more information on the use of cookies please refer to the Cookie Notice.
22 COMPLAINTS AND NOTICES
22.1 If you wish to make a complaint regarding the Website, the first step should be, as soon as reasonably possible, to contact Customer Services via the LiveChat function on our Website play.goc.network or by emailing us at playfoundation@protonmail.com.
22.2 Complaints Procedure
22.2.1 - Complaints can only be made in respect of incidents that have taken place not longer than six (6) months from the date of the complaint.
22.2.2 - Within 24 hours of receipt of your complaint, we will message through a third party service or email you and acknowledge that we have received your complaint, will confirm the particulars of your complaint and provide you with a copy of this procedure, upon request. An agent will log your message, investigate your complaint and respond to it. We aim to provide you with a substantive response to your complaint as soon as practically possible and seek to resolve your complaint within five working days from the date we receive the complaint.
22.3 Whilst we will endeavour to resolve the complaint sooner, the maximum duration for a complaint to be resolved is eight (8) weeks. Provided that, in the event that we are unable to resolve a matter due to input required from you, and we are not sent such information within a period of seven (7) days from the date of the request, then we will ëstop the clockí for any additional period of delay beyond the first seven (7) days.
22.4. If your concern is not resolved at this stage you can escalate the complaint by referring the matter in writing to the Head of Customer Operations at playfoundation@protonmail.com. We aim to keep you informed throughout the process. Our Head of Customer Operations will provide you with their decision, which represents the final stage of our internal complaints procedure. We aim to ensure that the entire complaints procedure takes no more than eight weeks form receipt of a complaint.
23 TRANSFER OF RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
23.1 We reserve the right to transfer, assign, sublicense or pledge the Terms, in whole or in part, to any person, provided that any such assignment will be on the same terms or terms that are no less advantageous to you.
24 EVENTS OUTSIDE OUR CONTROL
24.1 We will not be liable or responsible for any failure to perform, or delay in performance of, any of our obligations under the Terms of Use that is caused by events outside our reasonable control, including, without limitation, acts of God, war, civil commotion, interruption in public communications networks or services, industrial dispute or DDOS-attacks and similar Internet attacks having an adverse effect ("Force Majeure"). Our performance is deemed to be suspended for the period that the Force Majeure Event continues, and we will have an extension of time for performance for the duration of that period. We will use our reasonable endeavours to bring the Force Majeure Event to a close or to find a solution by which our obligations may be performed despite the Force Majeure Event.
25 WAIVER
25.1 If we fail to insist upon strict performance of any of your obligations or if we fail to exercise any of the rights or remedies to which we are entitled, this shall not constitute a waiver of such rights or remedies and shall not relieve you from compliance with such obligations.
25.2 A waiver by us of any default shall not constitute a waiver of any subsequent default. No waiver by us of any of the provisions of the Terms shall be effective unless it is expressly stated to be a waiver and is communicated to you in writing in accordance with above.
26 SEVERABILITY
26.1 If any of the Terms are determined to be invalid, unlawful or unenforceable to any extent, such term, condition or provision will to that extent be severed from the remaining terms, conditions and provisions which will continue to be valid to the fullest extent permitted by law. In such cases, the part deemed invalid or unenforceable shall be amended in a manner consistent with the applicable law to reflect, as closely as possible, our original intent.
27 LAW AND JURISDICTION
27.1 Internet Gambling may be illegal in the jurisdiction / country in which You are located or residing. The Casino does not intend to enable You to contravene applicable law. You are responsible for any gaming activity and You are also responsible for ensuring that You are not contravening any law or legislation prohibiting gaming online. Before relying on any information contained on the Website you should consult the rules in your jurisdiction. The Casino excludes to the fullest extent lawfully permitted all liability for any use of the Website, whether the service is moderated or not. You are solely responsible for ascertaining whether it is legal in Your Jurisdiction to participate at the Casino Game.
27.2 It is the sole responsibility of the player to account and report relevant taxes on winnings that might be applicable in their jurisdiction.
28 SOCIAL REPONSIBILITY AND PROBLEM GAMBLING
28.1 28.1 We endorse socially responsible gaming. We want you to enjoy your gaming experience on our site, whilst remaining aware of the social and financial risks associated with problem gambling.
28.2 We will use our best endeavours to ensure that, if you have requested self-exclusion from our Website, you will not be able to open a new account with us or any other Website operated under the licences of Costa Rica SRL or a group company. However, in the event that you succeed in creating a new account by supplying different data to that supplied by you when registering for Your Player Account, or by using any similar means, you agree that we shall not be liable for any losses subsequently incurred by you as a result of using our Services. Should we become aware that you have succeeded in opening a further account with us in this way, we reserve the right to immediately close that account. In such a scenario, we will (subject to these Terms and any legal and regulatory obligations with which we are required to comply) return any Deposit Funds to you.
28.3 Filtering Systems - Filtering solutions allow you (or others such as parents or other carers) to regulate access to the internet or certain websites, based on chosen criteria. These filtering solutions can use filters to prevent children and other vulnerable people from accessing, amongst other things, gambling websites. If you share your computer with friends or family who are under the Legal Age to register or gamble with our site, or who have requested self-exclusion from gambling sites, or who may otherwise be vulnerable to problem gambling, please consider using such filtering solutions. Examples include:
http://www.netmom.com/
http://www.contentwatch.com/
http://www.cyberpatrol.com/
28.4 We are committed to supporting Responsible Gambling initiatives and encourage you to find information about Social Responsibility and Problem Gambling. If you have concerns that you possibly have a problem with gambling the links below will assist you in identifying this and recommend further steps and advice.
http://www.gamblersanonymous.org/ga/content/20-questions
http://www.jeu-aidereference.qc.ca/Article/213/en/?cmpt=2
28.5 Return of Outstanding Balance Process ñ Upon making a self-exclusion request, we will endeavour to pay out your entire outstanding Deposit Funds on account as soon as possible and, in the event that you have not withdrawn the funds during the self-exclusion process, we will first attempt to pay you to the last recorded payment details or should that not be possible we will contact you to provide additional payment details. If we are not able to pay you the outstanding Deposit Funds within 12 months of a permanent self-exclusion being made or in the case of a temporary self-exclusion within 12 months of the expiration of the temporary self-exclusion, we will transfer the entire balance of Deposit Funds to a responsible gaming charity of our choice. PROVIDED THAT, in the event that you have an amount less than $3 as Deposit Funds at the time of the self-exclusion, we will aggregate the funds with those of other customers that also have less than $3 as Deposit Funds, and pay the total funds to a responsible gaming charity of our choice. You will not have a claim against us or against the charity to whom we donated the funds.
28.6 We reserve a right to pro-actively place financial limits or also to self-exclude Your Player Account where, for responsible gaming reasons we deem it appropriate to do so and we may refuse a request from you to remove or reduce such limit.
29 LINKS
29.1 Where we provide hyperlinks to other websites, we do so for information purposes only. You use any such links at your own risk and we accept no responsibility for the content or use of such websites, or for the information contained on them.
CHATS (Provided by Play Goc)
30.1 The Company gives its customers the possibility to make use of a chat room where they are able to communicate with other players registered and making use of the site. We set the chat room policy and reserve the right to change these policies at any time. We will notify you of any changes to the terms in accordance with paragraph 3 of these Terms. By using this chat room, you are binding yourself to comply with these Terms.
30.2 Chats are intended for legitimate comments and constructive discussion. We reserve the right to restrict the ability of individuals to post comments in any chats set up by us. We do not accept any liability arising from the use of such chats by you or other players or other persons which is incorrect, inaccurate or otherwise in breach of these Terms.
30.3 Every user of our chats agrees not to post any comment which is:
30.3.1 Defamatory in nature or contains any information that the user has no legal right to publish or to disclose, or the disclosure or publication of which is otherwise illegal;
30.3.2 (Or contains anything which is) racist, vulgar, hateful, obscene, profane, threatening, insulting or offensive;
30.3.3 Intended to impersonate another person or entity;
30.3.4 Posted for the purpose of advertising;
30.3.5 contains a link to any virus, corrupted file, key loggers or any other malicious code or material that could cause harm to the computer, data or financial security of any party;
30.3.6 A comment intended to take advantage of or collude with or against other players or us using our site or amount to activities of a suspicious or criminal nature;
30.3.7 A link to any false or misleading statements or any statement seeking to unfairly manipulate a market, game or event;
30.3.8 An attempt to collect or store data about other users;
30.3.9 A misuse of Forum functionality;
30.3.10 Information protected by any form of intellectual property whether registered or unregistered or any contractual, statutory and equitable obligations of confidence.
We monitor the content of chat room comments in an attempt to prevent any chat which would breach these Terms. In order for us to monitor the chatrooms, we require all chat to be in the primary language of that particular forum.
30.4 Our forums are moderated and all conversations are logged or recorded. We reserve the right to refuse to post any comment/s and investigate and take provisions, which may include but are not limited to the closure of any account against any user who is in breach of these Terms. We also reserve the right to close or remove any chat rooms without prior warning and also to report any suspicious chats or comments to the relevant Authorities.
31 INTERPRETATION
31.1 The original text of the Terms is in English and any interpretation of them will be based on the original English text. If the Terms of Use or any documents or notices related to them are translated into any other language, the version most favourable version to the player shall prevail.
Last updated 02.02.2019
MARKET Terms of Service
1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 By using and/or visiting the MARKET section of the Website play.goc.network/market ("PLAY MARKET LTD") or by using an account on the Website you agree to be bound by:
1.1.1 The General Terms and Conditions, on this page;
1.1.2 the Privacy Policy;
1.1.3 Any terms and conditions of promotions and special offers which may be found on the PLAY MARKET from time to time.
1.2 All of the terms and conditions listed above shall together be referred to as "the Terms", "Terms" or "these Terms".
2 TERMS OF SERVICE CONDITIONS
2.1 PLAY MARKET LTD reserves the right to modify or change the terms and conditions of the agreement at any time and at its sole discretion. PLAY MARKET LTD will provide notice of these changes by updating the revised Terms of Use on the webpage (https://https://play.goc.network/market/terms-of-service/) and changing the “[Last updated:]” date on this page. Any and all modifications or changes to the Terms of Use will be effective immediately upon being announced on the website or released to users. As such, your continued use of PLAY MARKET LTD's services acts as acceptance of the amended agreement and rules.
2.1.1 By refusing to accept modified or changed terms made by PLAY MARKET LTD with an existing account, you have requested account termination and you agree to abide by the Terms stated in section 15.4.1
3 PARTIES
3.1 PLAY MARKET LTD ("us", "our", "we" or the "Company");
3.2 In these Terms:
3.3.1 "Your Jurisdiction" means the jurisdiction in which you are domiciled, reside or work.;
3.3.2 Reference to "Deposit Funds" means the funds that you deposit into Your PLAY MARKET account, in each case that have not been spent on (committed to) trades including trades which are not yet completed, plus any applicable dividends;
3.3.3 Reference to "All Funds" means all Deposit Funds
3.3.5 reference to "Winnings" is to any and all winnings resulting from, but not limited to, tokens won through promotions such as trading competitions offered by us through the use of tokens which you deposited into Your PLAY MARKET account.
3.3.6 "Cryptocurrency" is a decentralised digital asset designed to work as a medium of exchange that uses strong cryptography to secure financial transactions, control the creation of additional units, and verify the transfer of assets.
3.3.7 "Private key" is a cryptographic system that uses pairs of keys; public keys which may be disseminated widely, and private keys which are known only to the owner.
4 ELIGIBILITY
4.1 By registering to use a PLAY MARKET Account, you have affirmed that you are at least 21 years old and are an individual, legal person or other organization with full legal capacity to enter into this User Agreement between you and PLAY MARKET LTD. If you are not, you and your guardian shall undertake all consequences resulting from your actions and PLAY MARKET LTD shall have the right to cancel or freeze your account in addition to filing claims against you and your guardian for compensation.
5 PROHIBITION OF USE
5.1 By accessing and using PLAY MARKET and any of its services, you acknowledge and declare that you are not on any trade or economic sanctions lists, such as the UN Security Council Sanctions list or OFAC (Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department). PLAY MARKET LTD maintains the right to select its markets and jurisdictions to operate and may restrict or deny its services to certain countries. The content of this Agreement shall not be excluded from the laws of the country under which the user belongs. PLAY MARKET LTD maintains its stance that prohibited users are not to use or access PLAY MARKET and any of its services.
6 DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
6.1 PLAY MARKET LTD provides an online digital asset trading platform (crypto to crypto) for products generally known as cryptographic tokens, digital tokens, cryptocurrency, or cryptographic currency. PLAY MARKET LTD does not provide fiat trading capabilities on its platform and as such is not subjected to the regulations that come with it. PLAY MARKET functions as a trading platform provider and is not a buyer or seller in trades made between traders. PLAY MARKET LTD is also not a market maker. Traders must register and open an account with PLAY MARKET and deposit digital assets prior to commencement of trading. Traders may request the withdrawal of their digital assets, subject to the limitations as stated in the Terms and Conditions.
6.1.1 PLAY MARKET LTD makes great efforts to maintain the accuracy of information posted on its website however it cannot guarantee the accuracy, suitability, reliability, completeness, performance or fitness for purpose of the content through the website and will not accept liability for any loss or damage that may arise directly or indirectly from the content. Information on PLAY MARKET website can be subjected to change without notice and is provided for the primary purpose of facilitating users to arrive at independent decisions. PLAY MARKET LTD does not provide investment or advisory advice and will have no liability for the use or interpretation of information as stated in its website or other communication mediums. All users of PLAY MARKET must understand that there are risks involved in trading. PLAY MARKET LTD encourages all users to exercise prudence and trade responsibly within their own means.
6.1.2 While PLAY MARKET LTD emphasises platform security to ensure the continuity and security of its services (announcements will be made in event of downtime/maintenance when possible), it will be non-accountable to Act of God, malicious targeted hacking, terrorist attacks and other unforeseen circumstances. PLAY MARKET LTD reserves the right to cancel, rollback or block transactions of all type on its platform in event of abnormal transactions. Subject to change in accordance section 2.1 of these terms, PLAY MARKET LTD will not ask for any password from its users, will not ask users for users private keys, nor ask users to transfer funds that are not listed on its trading platform. Users are encouraged to exercise prudence in dealing with discounts or promotions that could lead to them getting scammed. While the list is non-exhaustive, you agree that PLAY MARKET LTD will not be held responsible for any losses arising from the situations stated above.
6.2 By using PLAY MARKET LTD and any of its services, you declare that all information to PLAY MARKET in connection with these Terms are true, accurate and complete.
7 USER INFORMATION VERIFICATION
7.1 With Creation of an account on PLAY MARKET, you agree to share the required information requested for the purposes of user verification (cryptocurrency wallet and cryptocurrency wallet address). This information is used specifically for the detection of money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other financial crimes on the PLAY MARKET platform. In addition to providing this information, to facilitate compliance with global industry standards for data retention, you agree to permit us to keep a record of such information for the lifetime of your account plus 5 years beyond account closing. You also authorise us to make inquiries, either directly or through third parties, that are deemed necessary to verify your account information or to protect you and/or us against financial crimes such as fraud.
7.1.1 The Verification information we request may be your cryptocurrency wallet address and your cryptocurrency wallet balance. In providing this required information, you confirm that it is accurate, authentic and that you are the rightful owner of the cryptocurrency wallet that you have submitted to PLAY MARKET. Moreover, you must guarantee that the information is truthful and complete. If there is any reasonable doubt that any information provided by you is wrong or untruthful, PLAY MARKET LTD shall have the right to notify you to demand corrections, remove relevant information directly and terminate all or part of PLAY MARKET Service to you. You hereby acknowledge and agree that you have the obligation to keep all information provided up to date if there are any changes.
8 ACCOUNT USAGE REQUIREMENTS
8.1 PLAY MARKET accounts can only be used by the wallet address owner. PLAY MARKET LTD reserves the right to suspend, freeze or cancel accounts that are used by persons other than the wallet address owner. Accordingly, PLAY MARKET LTD will not take legal responsibility for these accounts.
9 ACCOUNT SECURITY
9.1 PLAY MARKET LTD prioritizes maintaining the safety of those user funds entrusted to us and has implemented industry standard protections for our platform. With that said, there are account-level risks that are created by individual user actions. You are required to understand the need to independently take safety precautions to protect your own account and personal information.
9.1.1 You shall be solely responsible for the safekeeping of your PLAY MARKET account and password on your own, and you shall be responsible for any and all activities under your log-in credentials, PLAY MARKET account and password (including but not limited to information disclosure, information posting, consent to or submission of various rules and agreements by clicking on the website, online renewal of agreement, etc.).
9.2 You hereby agree that:
(a) you will notify PLAY MARKET LTD immediately if you are aware of any unauthorized use of your PLAY MARKET account by any person or any other violations to the security rules;
(b) you will strictly observe the security, authentication, dealing, charging, withdrawal mechanism or procedures of PLAY MARKET; and
(c) you will sign-out from the website by taking proper steps at the end of every visit.
9.2.1 PLAY MARKET LTD will not be responsible for any loss or consequences caused by your failure to comply with the above Account Security provision.
10 DISPUTE RESOLUTION
10.1 PLAY MARKET LTD reserves the right to resolve issues and disputes at its sole discretion. Issues include, but are not limited to, infringement of others’ rights, violation of laws and regulations, abnormal trades and others not included in the Terms. Users agree to bear the costs arising from the process of dispute resolution.
11 GUIDELINES FOR USAGE OF SERVICES PROVIDED BY PLAY MARKET
11.1 You hereby agree to observe the following covenants during your use of services on PLAY MARKET:
● All the activities that you carry out during the use of PLAY MARKET Services will be in compliance with the requirements of applicable laws, regulations, as well as the various guidelines of PLAY MARKET,
● will not be in violation of public interests, public ethics or other’s legitimate interests,
● will not constitute evasion of payable taxes or fees and will not violate this agreement or relevant rules.
11.1.2 If you violate the foregoing promises and thereby cause any legal consequence, you shall independently undertake all the legal liabilities in your own name and indemnify PLAY MARKET LTD from all actions, claims, or costs arising from such violation. You will not use any data or information displayed on the site for commercial purposes without the prior written consent of PLAY MARKET LTD. You will use the site in accordance with the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, without taking acts of unfair competition nor attempting to intervene with the normal operation of PLAY MARKET. Examples of such malicious acts include, but are not limited to
● using a device, software or subroutine to interfere with the site
● overloading network equipment with unreasonable data loading requests
● executing malicious sales or purchases on the market
11.1.3 By accessing the PLAY MARKET Service, you agree that PLAY MARKET LTD shall have the right to unilaterally determine whether you have violated any of the above covenants and take actions to apply relevant rules without receiving your consent or giving prior notice to you. Examples of such actions include, but are not limited to
● block and close order requests
● freezing your account
● reporting the incident to authorities
● publishing the alleged violations and actions that have been taken
● deleting any information you published that is in violation
11.2 If your alleged violation causes any losses to a third party, you shall solely undertake all the legal liabilities in your own name and exclude PLAY MARKET LTD from any loss, fine or extra expenses. If, due to any alleged violation PLAY MARKET LTD incurs any losses, is claimed by any third party for compensation or suffers any punishment imposed by any administrative authorities, you shall indemnify PLAY MARKET LTD in full against any losses and expense caused thereby, including reasonable attorney’s fee.
12 SERVICE FEES
12.1 PLAY MARKET LTD reserves the rights to levy service fees on users who use its services. It is in the discretion of PLAY MARKET LTD to adjust the service fees charged to users using its services.
13 LIABILITY
13.1.1 PLAY MARKET LTD will provide the PLAY MARKET Service at an “as is” and “commercially available” condition and does not offer any form of warranty with regards to the Service’s reliability, stability, accuracy and completeness of the technology involved. PLAY MARKET serves merely as a venue of transactions where token-related information can be acquired, and token-related transactions can be conducted. PLAY MARKET LTD cannot control the quality, security or legality of the token involved in any transaction, truthfulness of the transaction information, or capacity of the parties to any transaction to perform their obligations under the rules. You must carefully consider the associated investment risks, legal status and validity of the transaction information and investment decisions prior to your use of the PLAY MARKET Services provided.
13.2.1 You acknowledge and agree, PLAY MARKET LTD shall not be liable for any of your losses caused by any of the following events, including but not limited to:
● Losses of profits, goodwill, usage or data or any other intangible losses
● Use or failure to use the PLAY MARKET Service
● Unauthorized use of your account or unauthorized alteration of your data by third parties
● Your misunderstanding of the PLAY MARKET Service
● Any other losses related to the PLAY MARKET Service which are not directly attributable to PLAY MARKET
13.2.2 In no event shall PLAY MARKET LTD be liable for any failure or delay of service resulting from regular network maintenance or external factors such as power failure, natural disaster, service provider-side problems or governmental acts.
13.3.1 You agree to indemnify and hold harmless PLAY MARKET LTD, its affiliates, contractors, licensors, and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents from and against any claims and damages (including attorneys’ fees, fines or penalties imposed by any regulatory authority) arising out of your breach or our enforcement of this Agreement. This shall also apply to your violation of any applicable law, regulation, or rights of any third party during your use of the PLAY MARKET Service.
14 ANNOUNCEMENTS
14.1 Please be aware that all official announcements, news, promotions and competitions will be listed on https://t.me/OfficialPLAYAnnouncements where we encourage all users to refer to regularly. PLAY MARKET LTD will not be held liable or responsible in any manner of compensation should users incur personal losses arising from ignorance or negligence of the announcements.
14.2 GOC Dividend deposit announcements will be displayed on https://play.goc.network/airdrops/
15 TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT
15.1 You agree that we have the right to immediately suspend your account (and any accounts beneficially owned by related entities or affiliates), freeze or lock the funds in all such accounts, and suspend your access to PLAY MARKET and related account(s) if we suspect any such accounts to be in violation of the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, AML/CTF acts or any applicable laws & regulations. PLAY MARKET LTD shall have the right to keep and use the transaction data or other information related to such accounts. The above account controls may also be applied in the following cases:
● The account is subject to a governmental proceeding, criminal investigation or other pending litigation
● We detect unusual activity in the account
● We detect unauthorized access to the account
● We are required to do so by a court order or command by a regulatory/government authority 15.2 In case of any of the following events, PLAY MARKET LTD shall have the right to directly terminate this agreement by cancelling your account, and shall have the right to permanently freeze (cancel) the authorizations of your account on PLAY MARKET and withdraw the corresponding PLAY MARKET account thereof:
● after PLAY MARKET LTD terminates services to you,
● you allegedly sign in with any other person’s account as a PLAY MARKET user again, either directly or indirectly;
● the main content of user’s information that you have provided is untruthful, inaccurate, outdated or incomplete;
● when this agreement (including the rules) is amended, you do not accept the updated terms of service;
● any other circumstances where PLAY MARKET LTD deems it should terminate the services.
15.3 Should the account be terminated, the account & transactional information required for meeting data retention standards will be securely stored for five years. In addition, if a transaction is unfinished during the account termination process, PLAY MARKET LTD shall have the right to notify your counterparty of the situation at that time.
15.4 Remaining funds after account termination (at account owner's request)
15.4.1 Once the account is closed/withdrawn, all remaining balance(s) (including charges and liabilities owed to PLAY MARKET LTD) on the account will be payable at once to PLAY MARKET LTD. Upon payment of all outstanding charges to PLAY MARKET LTD (if any), the user will have 3 weeks to withdraw all funds from the account.
15.5 Remaining funds after account termination (fraud/AML/violation of terms)
15.5.1 PLAY MARKET LTD maintains full custody of the funds and user data/information which may be turned over to the authorities in event of account suspension/closure arising from fraud investigations, AML investigations or violation of PLAY MARKET LTD’s Terms including but not limited to trading on PLAY MARKET from a sanctioned country.
16 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL LAWS
16.1 It is the responsibility of the user to abide by local laws in relation to the legal usage of PLAY MARKET in their local jurisdiction. Users must also factor, to the extent of their local law all aspects of taxation, the withholding, collection, reporting and remittance to their appropriate tax authorities. All users of PLAY MARKET and any of its services acknowledge and declare that the source of their funds come from a legitimate manner and are not derived from illegal activities. PLAY MARKET LTD maintains a stance of cooperation with law enforcement authorities globally and will not hesitate to seize, freeze, terminate the account and funds of users which are flagged out or investigated by legal mandate.
17 PRIVACY POLICY
17.1 PLAY MARKET LTD may announce and amend its privacy policy on the platform of PLAY MARKET from time to time and the privacy policy shall be an integral part of this Usage Agreement. The latest version of the Privacy Policy can always be found here on this page (https://play.goc.network/privacy-policy).
18 INDEMNITY AND DISCLAIMER
18.1 You agree to indemnify PLAY MARKET LTD and its entirety of affiliates and hold them harmless from and against all third-party claims except from PLAY MARKET LTD’s breach of these Terms. As mentioned in description of services, PLAY MARKET LTD strives its best to maintain the data integrity on its site but does not guarantee the information and services provided in its platform. PLAY MARKET LTD will not be liable for errors arising from the use of its services.
19 COMPLAINTS
19.1 If you have any complaints, feedback or questions, please contact playfoundation@protonmail.com and we will in our best efforts try to resolve it for you.
Reject
