Using blockchain technology to create a futures exchange with zero trading fees and non-custodial account balances.
Real time, on-chain futures trading.
Digitex Exchange Launch
The Digitex platform is currently in early Beta, with our full public release scheduled for April 30th 2019
Futures Exchange
The Digitex Futures Exchange is a trading platform where traders can buy and sell futures contracts on various cryptocurrencies, commodities and financial instruments. Traders win and lose DGTX tokens. Traders must have a balance of DGTX to place trades which creates demand for DGTX. There are zero transaction fees on all trades. Zero-fee trading attracts highly active, ultra-short term traders who create highly liquid markets using strategies not viable on fee charging exchanges. Large tick sizes level the playing field between human traders and bots.
Zero-Fee Tokenomics
Digitex can operate indefinitely without charging transaction fees on trades by minting a small number of new DGTX tokens each year. Token issuance is decided and governed democratically by all DGTX token owners. Traders who are attracted to zero-fee trading must buy DGTX tokens to participate, thus creating increased demand for DGTX. This demand will offset the small inflationary effects of minting a small number of new tokens.
Non-Custodial Accounts
Digitex is at the cutting edge of blockchain technology and is developing a hybrid exchange that combines the best parts of centralized and decentralized systems. Traders enjoy the speed and reliability of real time trading on a centralized order matching engine, but at the same time they don’t have to trust the exchange with their money. Account balances are kept in an independent smart contract and the exchange is unable to withhold, mismanage, steal or lose your funds because we physically do not have your private keys. This also makes Digitex less attractive to hackers because there are no client funds to steal.
Buy, Sell, and Trade DGTX now!
Changelly
