Mobile Application​
CryptoProfile is a Community-Centric Token
Bounty Hunters are conventionally thought to be only useful in boosting up the numbers of communities and not contributing anything much to the ICO project. CryptoProfile has come up with strategic planning to involve bounty hunters in a manner that they contribute to the projects up to their full potential:
Bounty hunters will receive free CP tokens as long as they register as community and do the needful tasks.
Bounty hunters will get incentives for holding CP tokens and also receive airdrops of other ICO projects’ tokens.
The bounty hunters possessing CP tokens will have more discounts if they want to invest in an ICO project handled by CP.
Writers who are involved in CP ICO projects will have the following benefits:
Writers will receive CP tokens as well.
Writers will get incentives for holding CP tokens and also receive airdrops of other ICO projects' tokens.
The writers possessing CP tokens will have more discounts if they want to invest in an ICO project handled by CP.
Use Cases
In every project, uses cases and liquidity are interdependent. In order to ensure that the CP tokens are utilized:
Writers who write articles and have an up-vote of 50+ will be rewarded with a token. The token can be further sold in exchanges or stored on the wallet.
Crypto novices, who have gone through the custom CP blockchain technology educational guides will be rewarded with a particular amount of CP tokens.
Projects that featured their ICOs on cryptoprofile.com can enjoy free zone service under particular terms and conditions.
Featured ICO projects have access to our trusted, consolidated VCs, digital marketing teams, legal advisors, blockchain developers, PR & fundraising teams and ecosystem partners. Minimal charges are applicable for these services.
Airdrop tokens can be sold in exchanges.
From exchanges, they can be sold off and changed to fiat currency.
Note
Companies that engage CryptoProfile in paid marketing, our partners in various collaborations and even the companies or websites which advertise our venture are incentivized to receive free tokens.
Writers that share their valuable comments and feedback via email about our contents in tooltip, descriptions, articles, and forums, or send in their reviews on our website to help improve not just the quantity but the quality of the content available will also be incentivized with CP tokens.
By doing these, we are:
Promote healthy speculation in cryptocurrency market.
Aiming to achieve steady uptrend of coin price.
Providing ICO projects with inadequate promotional activity budgets.
Gaining earned trust and support from the community.
About Token
& Distributions
General description
CP Token will be released on the basis of Ethereum platform and fully comply with ERC20* standard.
Support of this standard guarantees the compatibility of the token with third-party services (wallets, exchanges, listings, etc.), and provides easy integration.
