Join the Presale and Contribute in Fiat or Crypto
What's Jarvis?
Jarvis is a financial hub which connects to and makes interoperable multiple                     centralized and decentralized financial services, products and markets, existing                     and upcoming, to make them accessible from a single account.
It allows to manage one's assets, to access fiat, crypto, stocks, Forex and CFDs                     trading and DApps from multiple blockchain. Each assets can be utilized as a                     medium of exchange, payment, or as collateral, and can be lent or borrowed.
Download
Onepager White Paper
Under the hood
The building block of Jarvis is a Web3 wallet which connects                       to our hybrid exchange, and to several partners' centralized                       and decentralized applications through open APIs and protocols.
Network of liquidity pools
Aggregates brokers, market makers and users multi-assets liquidity.
Interoperability
Allows instant cross-chain and cross-asset classes exchange.
Fiat and payment gateway
An interoperable payment network powered by the exchange to pay from any assets.
Asset collateralization
Collateral credit for instant transfer, lending and margin trading.
Apps and Dapps
Access hundreds of financial services and products and many more like games, etc.
Infinitely scalable
Off-chain matching engine to handle millions of transactions per seconds.
Secure by design
Users keep the control of their private keys and can use cold storage solutions.
Open API
Developers can extend and enrich the Jarvis ecosystem.
Interface
Jarvis capabilities are delivered through two easy-to-use applications designed to                 abstract details of the underlying technology. Both embed a conversational AI which                 provides an innovative manner of interaction: it can help automate tasks, correct                 mistakes and ease navigation.
Jarvis Trader. Replace your broker and exchange.
The web/desktop application gives access to any financial markets from users wallets with innovative trading and analytics tools.
Trade Forex, stocks, commodities, tokens, cryptos
Margin trading, auto-trading, stoploss order etc.
Connect it to other exchanges and brokers
Share and discuss with other traders
Jarvis Wallet. Replace your Fintech app.
The mobile application puts users finances at their fingertips to enable quick deposits, exchanges, transfers or payments.
Link any asset to NFC/Jarvis Card
Collateralize asset to pay with a credit
Change your portfolio allocation in one click
Save and invest your spare change
Partners of Jarvis
Reward contributors
Token distribution
JRT is distributed every month to reward those who contributed the most                             to the company's growth, either users, developers or partners. JRT                             grants access to the DAO, which organizes bounty and airdrop campaigns                             to foster user acquisition.
Sharing revenues
The reward mechanism
As a partner, the DAO receives 25% of the ecosystem’s revenus (exchange,                             brokerage, fiat and payment gateway, partnerships) and shares it between                             JRT holders:
10% among every token holders
14% among the TGE participants
1% among early and private sale participants
Token Generation Event
ERC20 smart contract | see on etherscan
Total supply
