An insight into the world of Bitcoins and the unending aura around this virtual currency in this digital age.
Friday, February 15, 2019
Regulating Bitcoins
The previous blog gave a brief introduction on Bitcoins and why this virtual form of currency has value in this modern age. Today I’m going to look at Bitcoin regulation.
Regulation is a rule or order put in place to control an act and is vital in shaping a smooth-running economy and society. They underpin markets, protect the rights and safety of citizens and ensure the delivery of public goods and services. Currently, there are various rules and regulations surrounding bitcoins which varies depending on where in the world you are trading from. The inconsistent governance of bitcoins means that there are several problems which all forms of Cryptocurrency run into. Considering the major conflicts that bitcoins are currently facing, the regulation of bitcoins could potentially lead to more growth while minimizing or eradicating the problems altogether.
A stricter regulation can firstly make bitcoins more appealing to a wider range of people. For any currency to be accepted by the public, the demand and value needs to be raised, which can be brought along through proper guidelines of bitcoins. By using it for financial transactions on a regular basis, there will be an increased level of knowledge, familiarity and legitimacy being provided to the currency. This is a vital factor for bitcoins as it can only grow through demand. Improved demand  levels can also aid in managing the constant fluctuations in bitcoin prices.
Secondly, regulation in finance is essential due to the volatility of the financial market. Financial markets are prone to fail, and which can result in catastrophic periods of crisis. The use of any commodity and/or currency as a means of exchange is based on the assurance that it is ‘safe’ to use  which in turn is built up through confidence over a long period of time. This can lead to not only bitcoins running into bank runs, but also the possibility of borrowing and lending in bitcoins.
Lastly, regulations can reduce the impact of any possible bitcoin crisis in the future. Behavioural finance teaches how humans are strongly averse to loss and uncertainty. Regulation of bitcoins provides the trust and confidence that humans look out for when making investment decisions.
Though regulation can increase the favourability of bitcoins and make it appealing to a larger audience, it could also deter current users (especially the ones that use bitcoins for illegal activities). Money laundering, which is the attempt to conceal the origin of where money is derived from, will be harder after bitcoin regulation.
Andres Guadamuz & Chris Marsden looked at the regulation of Cryptocurrency in their paper Blockchains and Bitcoin: Regulatory response to cryptocurrencies . They researched around the regulatory issues surrounding bitcoins and focused on whether Bitcoins are legal. Though they argued that Bitcoins cannot be considered as a currency and the virtual banking system is not the way of the future, they did take into consideration some interesting pathways for the regulation of bitcoins.
An interesting read on bitcoin regulation is by the Brazilian professor Jorge Stolfi who berated Bitcoin regulation. His letter to the SEC shown light on the resemblance between Bitcoins and the Ponzi schemes. Stolfi argued that Bitcoins are a “negative sum” system which provides no real revenue for investors.
Currently, there are plans by the U.S government to introduce a Token Taxonomy Act to stop over-regulation of Cryptocurrency.  But it needs to be seen whether the bill will pass to give more clarity and growth to bitcoins and Cryptocurrencies in general.
