The interactive transcript could not be loaded.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Feb 9, 2019
The Binance Dex or Binance Decentralized Exchange. This is one of the most anticipated crypto exchange launches for 2019 since Binance took the spotlight in 2018. Although the decentralized exchange is not what it seems. Upon further investigations, Chico Crypto has uncovered that the crypto DEX will be fully centralized and controlled by Binance. They will own all block producing nodes or validators, which means they will be getting all binance chain fees, as well as all trading fees from the cryptocurrency exchange. Although, CZ Binance says that their control of the exchange will fade in the future, and validator nodes will be voted on with a dPOS voting system using binance coin. That is false, because Binance still owns over 50 percent of the $BNB, while his cronies own at least an additional 17 percent. They will vote for themselves, keeping them in power and ruling over the binance exchange. This is not a decentralized exchange nor a true crypto dex, this is a money printing machine filling the pockets of Changpeng Zhao Binance, the Prime Minister of Malta, and other Binance angel investors. Tune in to hear the full story!
Subscribe to The Chico Channel-- https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCHop...
⏰ Time Stamps ⏰
00:08 Introduction: Turning Our Attention To The Binance Dex
00:56 Lungs Are SAFU
01:10 r/cryptocurrency Post About Binance extortion & Racketeering
01:35 Binance Has Tried To Extort Digibyte $DGB and Elastos $ELA
02:28 Binance Stole Directly Stole Money From The Crypto Community
03:02 r/cryptocurrency Community Is On Binance and CZ's Case: Sleazy CZ and Greed
04:32 The Binance DEX (Decentralized Exchange) Or Not...
04:52 What Is The Binance Chain & What Does It Use
05:15 Binance Will Be Using A Proof Of Stake Model With Pre-Determined Block Producing Nodes All Owned By Binance
05:36 Binace Will Be Getting All Binance Chain Fees & Trading Fees
06:41 But Wait There's More! Project Needs To Pay Over 100k To List On The Binance DEX
07:24 Binance Says They Will Implement dPOS To Relase  Control Of The Binance Chain
07:37 But Binance Owns A Majority of Binance Coins!
08:06 Binance Whitepaper Says They Should Be Using Funds To Support The Community...BS
