Copyright © 2019 BrightCOIN.
By accessing this website and any pages on this website, you agree to be bound by its Terms of Use , Privacy Policy , Service Level Agreement and other policies made available on this website, as amended from time to time and in effect at the most recent time you access this website or any page thereof. BrightCOIN is not a registered broker-dealer, investment advisor or crowdfunding portal and does not engage in any activities requiring such registrations. When a issuer posts an token offering on BrightCOIN, the issuer is inviting Investors to form a contract with them. An Investor who funds an issuer is accepting the issuers offer, and forming that contract. BrightCOIN is not a part of this contract: the contract is a direct legal agreement between the Issuer and Investor. All users, buyers, investors and participants must conduct their own due diligence of each security as well as the risk associated with tokens and token based securities as a new asset class. All securities listed here are being offered by, and all information included on this site is the responsibility of, the applicable issuer of such securities. BrightCOIN does not verify information provided by token Issuer and makes no assurance as to the completeness or accuracy of such information. BrightCOIN employees, officers, directors and affiliates may own equity, tokens or other interests in companies using BrightCOIN site, and may also participate in any current offerings using BrightCOIN site. The purchase of tokens, token based securities, cryptocurrency and other digital assets are particularly risky and may result in total loss of capital. The content (Blogs, FAQs, News) posted on BrightCOIN may contain incorrect information, always get professional advice. Neither BrightCOIN nor any of its directors, officers, employees, representatives, affiliates or agents shall have any liability whatsoever arising from any error or incompleteness of fact or opinion in, or lack of care in the preparation of, any of the materials posted on this website. BrightCOIN does not provide legal, accounting or tax advice. Any representation or implication to the contrary is expressly disclaimed.
