We have been featured in
Important notice about cryptocurrency trading
Virtual currency is not a national currency in or outside of Japan.
Virtual currency handled by the Company is a “decentralized virtual currency” that is traded and issued on the Internet, and the value of a virtual currency is not guaranteed by neither a particular nation nor other people.
In Virtual Currency Trading, there is a risk that customers will incur losses due to value fluctuations of the virtual currency being traded. Further, in leveraged trading and margin trading, since the transaction amount is larger than the amount of virtual currency or margin that a customer deposits with the Company, there is a risk that customers will incur losses greater than the amount of virtual currency or margin.
In Virtual Currency Trading, there is a possibility that customers may not be able to place trades as they intend due to the fact that the difference between sell and buy prices of virtual currency will spread and orders may be suspended temporarily in the event of sudden market fluctuations, reduced liquidity, or other such situations.
Processing of transactions may be delayed, or placement, execution, confirmation and cancellation of orders may be invalidated due to a failure in the transaction system required for Virtual Currency Trading or the communication lines connecting the Company and customers.
There is a risk that virtual currency will be lost in whole or in part due to a cyber-attack or other such causes.
There is a risk that the Company will not be able to continue its business if the external environment changes (including tightening of regulations for virtual currencies), the Company’s financial condition deteriorates, or any service provider falls into bankruptcy. If the Company falls into bankruptcy, the Company will not be able to return assets to customers, and there is a possibility that customers will incur losses.
Assets deposited by customers are subject to the obligation to manage separately from the Company’s own assets, and they will be managed separately from the Company’s own money and virtual currency as follows. However, margin used on leveraged trading is not a subject to segregated management of customers assets. For more information, please refer to “11. Separation management”.
1) Money:
Customer’s trading account at Resona Bank, Ltd., SBI Sumishin Net Bank, Ltd., Aozora Bank, Ltd., or ORIX Bank Corporation.
2) Virtual Currency:
Virtual currency is stored in a cold wallet disconnected from the Internet or other external networks, or in a hot wallet connected to the Internet or other external networks, in such a manner that each customer’s amount is immediately recognizable as data.
Transaction fees and other fees are required for Virtual Currency Trading. Please see “11. Fees, etc.” for details.
Language
