How About IOST x NASA?
Published 2 weeks ago  by IOS Foundation
IOST via iost.io
Retweet to Support IOST x NASA!NASA is seeking Blockchain-based solutions to manage their internal systems and space mission management:  Challenge : Model Based System Engineering (MBSE) A significant challenge in MBSE is knowing that the system model being used is the current (or intended) version, since various aspects evolve through the system development and operations lifecycle. Blockchain solutions may enable a single, real-time source of truth for system models, to eliminate several sources of error and inefficiency in MBSE. IOST’s Proposed Solution IOST proposes a IOST-based Product Management System (PMS) that enable permeable traceability for variants and versions in MBSE.
When the product system model was defined originally, the supplier will write the initial block into the IOST Product Management System (PMS). The block contains (a) header with hash value, (b) unique identifier, (c) time-stamp, (d) system model (e) simulation model, (f) issuer info, (g) naming scheme and relevant info, (h) reference to the system model which is stored in other interdisciplinary system model. IOST PMS will fill system models quantitative information on the sub-system level and facilitate simulation.
The supplier will add the corresponding new metadata by appending a new IOST block in the PMS containing previous information with recent IDs, generating effectivity of current version, and data for the storage location and simulation model. The new block contains the reference to the domain-specific simulation model and it’s irreversible. In the product management system, users also associates the metadata and there is only a digital twin for each data record in the PMS blockchain.
Coin spectator is an automated news aggregation service. All copyrights belong to their respective owners. Images and text owned by copyright holders are used in reference to and promotion of those respective parties.
