How can I make a passive income with no money?
16th Feb 2019
Passive Income and Financial Freedom
To generate a passive income you need to create passive income assets. You can build passive income assets without any money, but you need to work to build them! You pay for this kind of project forward, all the work you have to do in advance. All these projects will require some maintenance once you have completed them, they will not take as much time as your full-time job, but they still regular maintenance.
There is a lot of competition out there to create these kinds of assets and you will need to work hard to generate any meaningful passive income from these projects.
Alternatively, you can also buy passive income investments such as land, REITs , bonds, masternodes etc. However, the focus of this article is building passive income assets with no capital upfront.
Learn more: What is passive income?  
Building a web-based passive income business, with no capital upfront.
Web-based business can be built for free. Brick and mortar businesses, no need for capital up front, but starter web-based business require no money to be launched.
These are the four steps you need to do to create a passive income with no money
Build your knowledge in a niche
Create quality content
Build an audience and a following
Monetise your audience, by selling digital products and services.
Step 1: Knowledge
Find a topic which can be monetised and you are also passionate for. You can turn any passion into a business, but some passions can be monetised more easily than others.
Consider that, this is a long term project, picking a topic which you have little motivation for and eventually abandon, will result in a loss of your time. Sometimes it is better to aim for persistence than the big bucks.
Once you have identified your passion, dive in and strive to become an expert. You do not need to become an expert before you go to step 2, but the better versed you are the easier it will be.
Some subjects require less mastery than others. Instagram channels are a prime example, where the only knowledge you need is that of human nature!
Step 2: Create Quality content
You can turn your knowledge into consumable bites of information or entertainment. Content can be video, text, audio, tweets, books, anything which can be consumed by the human mind and senses.
The content needs to capture an audience, keep them interested and then be eager for more.
Step 3: Spread your content through your channels.
There are billions of souls looking for information and entertainment on social media platforms or building something of value such as a free mobile app, a game or a workout app.
These eyeballs are looking to satisfy their need for entertainment, information and sense of community.
Each of these platforms is best adapted to certain types of content and viewership. Do your market research on the latest trends to maximise your impact.
Feedback from your audience will help you fine-tune your content to what they really want.
A list of platforms to help you build a web-based audience for free
Blogging – WordPress
Twitter
A Facebook page or Facebook Group. Learn more: How to monetize your Facebook group or page .
Building your own forum
Dtube
Step 4: Monetizing your audience – 10 passive income products you can create with no money.
Once you have an audience, you can sell them products and services. You can either sell them your products or products from third parties. Affiliate programs allow you to earn a commission when you sell third party products and services.
Selling your products can be more profitable, but more likely the first step you take is to test the market by selling third-party products. This is a valuable learning experience, which will save you from making costly mistakes. Create a Facebook community , and promote products to them.
Examples of products you can create:
1. Books and eBooks
Ebooks : If you have created a community an audience following, you then you must be producing quality content. Why not structure it and sell it in an easy to read format. Amazon makes selling ebooks very easy.
If you do not have content you can self publish a book easily with today’s platforms such as Amazon.
2. Online Courses:
A course is nothing but an interactive ebook, it can contain: PDFs, videos and questionnaires structured in such a way so that the audience has clear learning outcomes.
Learn more: How to create and sell an online course
3. Blogs
You can start a blog today on Blogger.com or  WordPress.com . The most important thing with blogs is their topic. You need to find a topic which can be easily monetised, but you have a passion for. Blogs can be monetised with Google Adsense and Amazon Associates .
4. Art
If you are a visual artist you can draw pictures and then sell digital copies or reprints of your art. Learn more: How to sell reprints of your art on Etsy
5. Music and sound bites
Music, sound bits and sound samples are big business. Music creators, TV, Radio need music to create their programs. There are people whose job is to travel the world and capture the exotic soundscapes. Music and sound can be sold.
AudioJingle  – Royalty Free Music
Amazon Music
6. Photos
There is a market for licensing rights of use for photos. Create your own niche of photos, this way you can better market your photos to the right audience.
SmugMug – Sell, share, and protect your images.
Gumroad – Sell music, comics, software, books, and films directly to your audience.
7. Mobile Apps or Mobile Games:
You can use an app in two ways, to create an audience and in this case, the App needs to be free or to get passive income. In this case, you will need to build the app yourself and sell it as a service. Learn more on how to  How to build mobile apps for passive income and  How to create passive income from Free mobile apps
8. Donation and Subscriptions
Patreon and Patreos : are platforms which allow content creators to get support from their audience. In return, the paid members will get content without ads or exclusive content.
9. Digital products:
A digital product can be anything which can be sold and stored digitally. These include templates, music, photos, art, lesson plans, guides, designs, planners, building and furniture blueprints.
Etsy – The global marketplace for vintage and handmade items.
SendOwl – SendOwl – Sell Digital Products, Subscriptions, Memberships & more
10. Physical products
Physical products are an excellent way of providing extra revenue and branding. If you have a flair for design, designing a mug, a shirt or even an umbrella will be fun. If not you can enlist the help of a friend who can!
SpreadShirt   – Sell your own custom t-shirts
Cafe Press – Design and sell your branded products.
Marketing Third party products to your community
Instead of selling your own products, you can sell third-party products. Companies are looking for channels of their products.
There are two fundamental ways of selling doing this.
Selling Ads on your channel, When selling ad space, you earn passive income directly. The sales you make do not matter. This is usually based on either ad impressions or actions taken on a particular link.
