Prof. Dr. Philipp Sandner, Frankfurt School Blockchain Center
+30 further speakers
The Frankfurt School Blockchain Center together with KI Group and financial.com jointly organize the Crypto Assets Conference 2019 which will take place on the campus of the Frankfurt School in on February 25 and 26, 2019.
The conference aims at bringing together experts from the newly emerging scene of crypto assets and experts from the traditional financial industry to discuss the following questions:
Crypto assets: How important will cryptocurrencies, tokens, ICO and other types of digital assets be in the future?
Investment: Should investment funds assess such digital assets? How can crypto assets be assessed?
Securitization: How can securitization be done via blockchain or distributed ledger technologies?
Cash-on-ledger: Will cash-on-ledger disrupt financial business models?
Asset management: Which new business models exist for asset managers and brokers?
Valuation: How can decentral networks be valued?
Tokens and regulation: What types of tokens exist and how should they be regulated?
Venture capital: Will ICOs and tokens disrupt traditional venture capital?
Startups: Which blockchain startups should be watched?
Location and date
Frankfurt School of Finance & Management
Mon., February 25, 2019, 09:30 until Tue., February 26, 2019, 17:00
Language: German and English
Registration via Eventbrite required; Participants who might not want to pay via credit card on Eventbrite can contact us; this way we will provide an invoice which would then be paid e.g. via bank transfer.
Agenda
More details: www.crypto-assets-conference.de
Who should participate?
This conference is ideal for the people who seek to understand crypto assets and are interested in talking to practitioners to be able to judge these new developments:
Investors in new technologies, venture capitalists, crypto investors
Startups and founders that are interested in understanding crypto assets
Financial organizations (banks, investment funds, asset management) in all industries
Employees in the area of business development and digitization in all industries
Lawyers, consultants, and analysts (with IT or business background)
Contact
