Tagomi co-CEO Jennifer Campbell, co-CEO Greg Tusar and president Marc Bhargava.
Photo credit: Paolo Testa
The recent history of cryptocurrencies has all the hallmarks of an immature, inefficient market. Mediocre entrepreneurs raised small fortunes through ICOs. A stunning bull market made every investor look smart. And brokers got investors to pay 10%-plus premiums for cryptocurrencies, just to get access. Now that prices have crashed and volatility has subsided, crypto traders care more about factors that are important in mature markets, like getting the lowest possible price for a trade. And some startups are stepping in to fill that need, building tools that look more like traditional financial technology and making it easier for larger institutional investors to come in.
Tagomi , a 17-person startup based in Jersey City, has built a trading platform for institutional investors who want to make large trades, in sizes ranging from hundreds of thousands of dollars to tens of millions. Its three cofounders have backgrounds spanning finance, venture capital and crypto. Co-CEO Greg Tusar, 49, was global head of electronic trading at Goldman Sachs until 2013. Co-CEO Jennifer Campbell, 25, is a Harvard grad who worked at Union Square Ventures and helped large investors sink money into digital assets. And president Marc Bhargava, 33, previously worked in consulting, private equity and VC. Tagomi raised $16 million in venture funding last year and launched its product in December.
For institutional investors, one of the problems with crypto is that the size of the market is still small, making it difficult to make big trades. Recent daily trading volume was $19 billion, according to CoinMarketCap, although many say that data is grossly inflated. The Nasdaq alone trades more than $100 billion a day.
Making the problem much worse, crypto assets aren’t easily accessible in one place—they’re fragmented across hundreds of exchanges. Prices can vary from one exchange to the next. According to one trader who uses Tagomi, on the morning of February 14, ether traded on crypto exchange Kraken for $115. Simultaneously, the lowest it traded on Coinbase was $118.73, a 3% difference. Such dynamics make it maddeningly difficult for traders to get the best possible price for a coin.
Tagomi’s tool hooks into about ten exchanges, pooling liquidity and making the assets accessible in one place. If a customer wants to buy $1 million in bitcoin, Tagomi might break that order up into thousands of smaller pieces and send them to different trading venues. Its algorithms look across exchanges for the lowest prices and largest supply of bitcoin, and they programmatically route the order, aiming for the lowest price. Tagomi makes money through commissions—it charges customers from 0.10% to 0.25% of each trade.
Tusar says the biggest challenge in running the operation is making sure Tagomi has the right amount of cash and crypto in the right places, at the right time. "The current exchange model requires you to prefund your trade,” he says. “When you want to buy $1 million of bitcoin, we need to have thought through where you're likely to want to buy."
So Tagomi has pools of cash sitting at big exchanges like Coinbase Pro, Gemini, Kraken and U.K.-based Bitstamp. It’s also hooked into a stream of liquidity from the secretive Chicago-based trading shop Jump Trading, says a trader familiar with the matter (Jump Trading and Tagomi declined to comment).
Other institutional-grade tools have recently come online. Omniex launched last year and connects to multiple exchanges and “OTC desks”—agencies that manually pair big buyers with big sellers—aiming to provide better liquidity and pricing. But its clients need to have their own separate accounts with trading venues, and Omniex’s software just sits on top, routing orders. Lumina makes software that helps large investors analyze their portfolios and do tax calculations, and it’s planning to release an institutional trading platform in the coming months.
Sfox has been bridging exchanges and aggregating liquidity for investors since 2015, but it has a different “direct dealer” model, where it’s taking the other side of the trades it makes for customers. Some say that poses a conflict of interest, because their incentives are at odds with those of their clients. Sfox CEO Akbar Thobhani says they always try to get the best prices for customers and are transparent with them, spelling out how much they charged for their services, which recently ranged between 0.25% and 0.75%.
Shrinking Spreads
In the nascent crypto-trading market, trading spreads—the difference between what a buyer is willing to pay and how much a seller is willing to charge—have historically been wide. In 2014, if someone wanted $1 million of the most liquid asset, bitcoin, OTC trading desk Genesis would charge 1% to do the trade, according to CEO Michael Moro. A year ago, it charged 0.5%, and today it charges 0.25% to 0.30%, Moro says. So spreads have fallen by 50% in just a year, a huge drop. And for less liquid assets, brokers can charge 10% or more. Tagomi co-CEO Campbell says that, during the 2017 bull market, if you wanted to do a $20 million bitcoin trade, you’d have to pay a 10% premium.
The pattern of shrinking spreads resembles what happened in the traditional markets after the dot-com bubble burst, Tusar says. From 2002 to 2006, due to the advent of electronic trading and the move to decimal trading—when exchanges were required to quote prices in decimals, instead of fractions, like 1/16—spreads were cut in half.
Spreads (shown above in hundredths of a percent) shrunk dramatically from 2001 to 2006. The different lines "Q1," "Q2," etc. represent groupings of stocks, with Q1 being the largest by market value, Q2 the second largest, etc.
Photo credit: 2007 academic study by Hendershott, Jones and Menkveld, "Does Algorithmic Trading Improve Liquidity?"
“We’ve seen the first half of that story play out,” Campbell says, referring to the crypto bear market and the start of spreads dropping. She thinks the drop will become steeper in the next few months as traders become more sophisticated and use more advanced technologies.
Tagomi is part of a larger trend of the industry’s maturing, says Steve McKeon, a University of Oregon finance professor who’s also a Tagomi customer—he’s a partner at VC firm Collaborative and leads their digital currency investments. “We see this happening across all of crypto,” he says. “The space is getting professionalized.”
Demand from institutional investors is a topic that has been hotly debated and speculated on in crypto for years. Genesis CEO Michael Moro thinks institutional buyers will stay on the sidelines until they see “a meaningful recovery in the price of bitcoin.” But demand isn't going away, with a police pension fund among the most recent investors. And Tusar says there’s more interest brewing beneath the surface, particularly from VC firms. “Current trading volumes underestimate what we see in terms of institutional interest.”
Be among the first to get important crypto and blockchain news and information with Forbes Crypto Confidential. It's free, sign up now .
Follow me on Twitter @JeffKauflin  or email me at jkauflin@forbes.com. Get the most important news on crypto and blockchain straight to you inbox --  Sign up to Forbes’ CryptoConfidential. 
Jeff Kauflin
Forbes Staff
I cover fintech, cryptocurrencies, blockchain and investing at Forbes. I’ve also written frequently about leadership, corporate diversity and entrepreneurs. Before Forbes, I worked for ten years in marketing consulting, in roles ranging from client consulting to talent man
...
