Message from the
Managing Director
‘I am certain that after the dust of centuries has passed over our cities, we, too, will be remembered not for victories or defeats in battle or in politics, but for our contribution to the human spirit.’
JOHN F. KENNEDY (1962)
read more
The International Blockchain Monetary Reserve, IBMR.io, is on a mission to create a financially inclusive, decentralized economic system for the developing world.  Though the scope is epic, as we are doing no less than creating an entire economic system, we are inspired and guided by the achievement of Bitcoin.  The genius of Bitcoin is that it has provided the proof of concept for how to establish and maintain the integrity and health of a decentralized network through an ingenious incentive based economic system and this has created the possibility for a new economic reality.
 
Financial inclusion in the current economic system is not structurally possible as the individual is not empowered as the system grows. In corrupt failing markets, though we do see growth in their respective GDP’s, we see no improvement in the lives of the urban working poor.
 
While the last two years has seen a mad rush of speculation and attempts at commercializing blockchain technology, we have not yet changed the world and we are in fact losing this one window of opportunity.
 
Asia Reserve Currency Coin, ARCC, is a project nearly two years in the making. Its use case is in creating a successful regional cryptocurrency which is backed by a socio-economic network and currency reserve structure. Our innovations are in how we onboard and empower the urban working poor in a decentralized system through “Social Poof of Work.” The objective is to provide and structure a debt-free micro asset as an incentive for our network to reduce corruption and increase national productivity. We are looking to build upon the achievement represented in Bitcoin and empower the people who for too long have been the unseen, unrepresented and exploited part of humanity and let them decide their own futures.
 
For those of you who can see that the work and promise of Bitcoin has just started, we ask you to join with us in changing this part of the world by supporting ARCC as you did with Bitcoin. Like those early Bitcoin adopters, the system is created to incentivize all, especially those who are brave enough to share in this vision first. This project has a 40-year economic road map and a team with the experience and dedication to get the job done. Together this is our contribution to the human spirit.
 
