Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Crypto & Blockchain I write about how bitcoin, crypto, and fintech are changing the world.
Share to facebook
Share to twitter
Share to linkedin
Bitcoin is trapped in an on-going 13-month bear market which has dragged down almost all other major cryptocurrencies , but that hasn't stopped some of bitcoin's biggest supporters and cheerleaders from predicting a return to the heady days of 2017 .
The bitcoin price has lost more than 80% of its value since it hit a lofty near-$20,000 per bitcoin in December 2017, soaring from under $1,000 at the beginning of the year.
Bitcoin has been hovering around the $3,500 mark so far in 2019 but now the likes of  Digital Currency Group and Grayscale Investments chief executive Barry Silbert and Galaxy Digital Holdings founder Mike Novogratz ( amongst others ) are predicting the next bitcoin bull run could be just around the corner.
The bitcoin price has struggled over the last year as investors weigh their options.
Getty
"As far as I'm concerned, bitcoin has won the race to be digital gold," Silbert told CNBC . "[I'm] as bullish as [I've] ever been."
"I'm convinced that whatever money is in gold is not going to stay in gold," Silbert added. "That gets handed down to millennials—I'm highly confident a lot of that will go into bitcoin."
Meanwhile, long-time bitcoin bull Novogratz has predicted institutional money should start to flow into cryptocurrencies within the next year, which he expects will trigger the next bitcoin price rally.
"A small amount of institutional assets is a lot of money," Novogratz told the Bloomberg newswire service , predicting the bitcoin price will rise to $8,000 within the next 12 months.
The bitcoin price bear market,  labeled "crypto winter" for its debilitating effect on the nascent industry , has seen some $400 billion wiped from the value of the world's cryptocurrencies as investors get cold feet, worrying that long-awaited  institutional investment  and  mainstream adoption will fail to materialize .
The bitcoin price hit an eye-watering $20,000 in December 2017 after starting the year at under $1,000.
Coindesk
However, these bullish bitcoin predictions come after news that bitcoin and blockchain asset management firm Morgan Creek Digital landed what it's claiming is the first crypto asset investment from a U.S. pension fund.
Elsewhere, bitcoin and cryptocurrency fundamentals are on the up—with bitcoin transaction fees hitting new lows as bitcoin transactions struck a one-year high last month, according to a recent report from research firm Diar.
Twitter chief executive and bitcoin advocate Jack Dorsey has also indicated his popular Cash App will eventually add support for bitcoin's closely-watched lightning network, designed to make smaller bitcoin payments quicker and cheaper.
Many bitcoin investors and traders are also looking toward things like  the highly-anticipated Bakkt bitcoin platform  and a U.S. bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF) to boost the price, though those expectations have been somewhat dampened lately as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission frets over potential price manipulation.
Michael Novogratz, founder and chief executive officer of Galaxy Digital Capital Management, at the Bloomberg Invest Summit in New York last year.
© 2018 Bloomberg Finance LP
The Bakkt bitcoin platform, which is being developed with New York Stock Exchange owner Intercontinental Exchange as well as partnerships with coffee shop chain Starbucks and PC giant Microsoft, plans to offer bitcoin futures trading from the first quarter of this year and open bitcoin and cryptocurrencies up to a wider retail market.
