Android IOS Download APK
It begins with total security
The Enjin Crypto Smart Wallet foundation rests on our top-of-the-line security architecture. It employs innovative security techniques such as the Enjin Secure Keyboard, rule of two encryption and other measures to turn your smartphone into a hardware-like secure blockchain wallet.
Security Audit
Smart by design
The Enjin Crypto Wallet is designed for simple & fast cryptocurrency management - it combines a mobile-first approach with a seamless and blazing-fast interface.
It features a Smart UI that evolves on the fly to suit your specific needs.
Simple by choice
Easy Coin Management
View, manage and sort all your crypto coins and tokens easily. Providing fast coin management & balances in your local currency.
Custom fees and limits
Transaction fees are calculated dynamically, for optimal sending. Alternatively, you can set your own custom fees and limits.
Coin & Token Swap
Swap & Exchange natively. Supporting ERC20 Tokens, BTC, LTC. Swap instantly & directly via our partners Kyber, Bancor & Changelly.
Detailed transaction info
View all the important details for all your transactions instantly. Supports detailed transactions info for all tokens and coins.
Instantly import your wallet
Import from all major blockchain wallets to the world’s most secure mobile wallet, with just a few easy steps.
Collectible NFT Support
Incredible NFT collectible support. Send, receive & melt tokens - everything from gaming multiverse items to membership tokens.
A wallet for any coin you own
The Enjin Crypto wallet supports BTC, ETH, LTC, ENJ and ERC20 ERC721 ERC1155 tokens by default.
The only wallet with true game collectible support.
Android APK
Enjin Secure Keyboard
We built our own proprietary keyboard designed to prevent any form of data sniffing or keyloggers. The keyboard is built into the wallet itself with the option to randomize keys for the ultimate level of input protection.
The rule of two encryption
The Enjin Wallet uses two completely independent layers of cryptography to protect the keystore and confidential data. Hardware AES encryption is employed on the lower level and software encryption is utilised at the application layer.
Ram encryption and screenshot blocking
All key data is held and processed in encrypted memory. On Android, secure window layout at the OS level stops any screenshot or video recording attempts. Please note, iOS OS policy is to allow screenshots by user, so this is permitted on the iOS version.
12 words and a pen
In case your device gets lost, you can secure your crypto wallet and coins with just 12 words written on paper. The recovery phrase can restore your wallet and funds on any other device.
No ads. Always free. Always private.
A free wallet with no ads or privacy concerns. That’s our promise.
Developed by Enjin Pte Ltd
