2 weeks ago Crypto World News Ethereum World News 414 Print this Page
What? Bitcoin Could Hit $1,165 Before $10,000
Financial Survivalism, a Bitcoin proponent and self-proclaimed “financial revolution prepper,” recently remarked that from his point of view, BTC could fall to $1,165 in the near future, citing the so-called “Hyperwave” form of price analysis. Survivalism even remarked that if the flagship cryptocurrency reaches Phase 1 of its Hyperwave formation, it could rapidly spike under that level in a wick.
@MustStopMurad is calling for a bottom in #Bitcoin in the $1,600 – $2,300 area. I'm calling for a return to Phase 1 of the #Hyperwave at $1,165 & could see it spiking even lower.
I proposed a 0.1 $BTC bet & Murad accepted! Terms are $1,165 gets hit on Bitstamp before $10,200. pic.twitter.com/rJemdn8rhw
— Financial Survivalism (@Sawcruhteez) February 15, 2019
He was so confident that Bitcoin will eventually hit that price point, 68% lower than current levels, that he took up a wager with Murad Mahmudov, a leading crypto analyst and partner at Adaptive Capital that expects this market to reach a bottom in April/May. According to Survivalism’s tweet, he bet 0.1 BTC, valued at $360 U.S. dollars at current, that the flagship cryptocurrency will reach $1,165 on Bitstamp before $10,200.
Although this sum isn’t a large amount, the two notable analysts were willing to put their reputations and pride on the line for this wager.
In a separate chart, which disregarded Hyperwave analysis, the analyst drew attention to other technicals and trends that indicate Bitcoin could fall lower from current levels. More specifically, he drew lines between 2014/2015’s bear season and the one that the cryptocurrency space is currently embroiled in.
Survivalism noted that in the previous bear market, BTC entered a so-called “Adam and Eve” formation for a temporary upside breakout to test the 200-day exponential moving average, but fell lower in that cycle’s last bout of capitulation.
Here is the macro chart which I am following most closely. Has been progressing very nicely over the last couple weeks. Notice how we had a similar Adam & Eve pattern in the 2015 bear market that provided a dead cat bounce which was quickly rejected by the 200 EMA. $BTC #Bitcoin pic.twitter.com/y7MCIf73ql
— Financial Survivalism (@Sawcruhteez) February 15, 2019
As the Bitcoin chart just entered an Adam and Eve formation, Survivalism claims that history may rhyme, meaning that the asset could first retest $5,500 before embarking on a move to establish lower lows. In fact, through this chart, the analyst revealed that if history actually rhymes, $732.84 for each BTC could eventually be in the cards.
While there are some evident discrepancies between his charts, an overarching theme that Survivalism has enlisted is the idea that digital assets could fall further from current prices, even if optimists would beg to differ.
Short-Term Bearish, Long-Term Bullish
Survivalism’s recent comments underscore a common sentiment held by a majority of industry pundits that while Bitcoin could fall lower in the short-term, over the long haul, the asset can appreciate in an exponential manner.
On multiple occasions, Mahmudov has drawn attention to the $1,600 to $2,300 range, claiming that BTC is likely to bottom in that range. While this may seem foreboding, he once commented that he’s so bullish on Bitcoin’s long-term potential that he wouldn’t spend the asset for 10 years.
Analyst: Bitcoin (BTC) Could Fall To $1,800, But Now Is Accumulation Time
Zhao Dong, a Chinese Bitcoin legend, recently noted that while BTC could fall lower in this “crypto winter,” spring is around the corner, and it would be wise to accumulate cryptocurrency while the public doesn’t care. Analyst Josh Rager echoed that sentiment to a tee, explaining that after potentially further lows in 2019, potentially few of those in the “general population” could afford an entire Bitcoin.
Title Image Courtesy of Descryptive.com Via Unsplash
The post Crypto Analyst Takes Bet That Bitcoin (BTC) Will Hit $1,165 Prior to $10,000 appeared first on Ethereum World News .
- - - - -
