Login Sign Up
Top News
Market Analysis: Binance Coin (BNB) Rallies 10 Percent, Total Crypto Market Cap Gains $1.5 Billion As Bitcoin (BTC) Slowly Increases Throughout Day
Bitcoin (BTC) has been on a slow upglide today from $3,800 to $3,830, and there has not been much volatility. Support appears to lie in the $3,700-$3,800 range, and this level is important to watch to see if the market will turn bearish and head back to the long term support level of $3,100. Resistance… Read more
Cryptopia Exchange To Re-Open With 90.6 Percent of User’s Funds Intact, Police Investigation Of Hack Continues
Cryptopia is planning on reopening sometime soon, according to its official Twitter account. First, the New Zealand-based exchange will go into read-only mode on Monday, and trading will presumably begin soon after that. Cryptopia states that it is securing each wallet individually to prevent future hacks. On Jan. 14 Cryptopia was hacked, and the Cryptopia… Read more
Crypto.IQ Daily Radio Show Mar. 1: Mixed Morning on Crypto Market, Mark Karpeles to Face Case in United States, BitMEX Makes Policy Against United States Citizens More Stringent, EOS Blacklist Failure Results in $7.5 Million Being Released
Listen to the March 1 Crypto.IQ Daily Radio Show On this edition of the Crypto.IQ Daily Radio Show, we do a deep dive market analysis. Cryptocurrencies are mixed this morning with Bitcoin (BTC) on a slow upglide. Mark Karpeles, the former CEO of Mt. Gox, is already facing 10 years in prison in Japan, and… Read more
Bitcoin (BTC) and Long Bonds (TLT): Bullish Conviction Rising
If you read enough CrytpoTwitter, you will find an unfortunate fact. Nobody believes Bitcoin (BTC) can go up. If you try to suggest such a thing, they laugh at you. We saw a response to a bullish tweet from a guy with a chimpanzee as an avatar. “Mr. Chimpanzee” suggested Bitcoin (BTC) was going $1,600.… Read more
Market Analysis: Ethereum (ETH) Fork Appears Successful, Ripple (XRP) Listed on Coinbase, Major Cryptocurrencies in the Green
Bitcoin (BTC) is now back above $3,800 after briefly falling below it yesterday afternoon. There was some unusual and extremely volatile trading activity late this morning, with Bitcoin (BTC) falling to $3,755 and rising to $3,900 in less than 30 minutes. Bitcoin (BTC) stabilized near $3,850 and then fell throughout the afternoon to about $3,800.… Read more
Verge (XVG) Has Lost 94 Percent of Its Value After Three Time Warp Attacks and a 51 Percent Attack in 2018, Now Mining Code Is Malfunctioning and Developers May Fork to Proof of Stake (PoS)
The War On Shitcoins Episode 13: Verge (XVG). The war on shitcoins is a Crypto.IQ series that targets and shoots down cryptocurrencies that are not worth investing in either due to their being scams, having serious design flaws, being centralized, or in general just being worthless copies of other cryptocurrencies. There are thousands of shitcoins… Read more
Crypto.IQ Daily Radio Show Feb. 28: Bitcoin (BTC) Rises Back to $3,800, Ethereum (ETH) Hard Fork Today, Cryptopia Re-opening Soon Following Hack, Will Green New Deal Cause Bitcoin (BTC) to Hit $1 Million? Monero (XMR) Potentially Needed in Totalitarian Future
Listen to the February 28 Crypto.IQ Daily Radio Show On this edition of the Crypto.IQ Daily Radio Show, we do a deep dive market analysis. Bitcoin (BTC) has climbed back above $3,800 and other major cryptocurrencies are mixed this morning. The Ethereum (ETH) hard fork will be today around 3 p.m. Eastern time, and it… Read more
Market Analysis: Bitcoin (BTC) Falls Below $3,800 and Total Crypto Market Cap Sheds $3 Billion Due to Late Afternoon Dump
After a relatively stable day Bitcoin (BTC) dumped below $3,800 in the late afternoon, falling as low as $3,660 briefly. Now, Bitcoin (BTC) has recovered to $3,740. This has erased the gains from the past several days. The good news is that the $3,700 support level has held up, at least for now, although this… Read more
Name
