Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
JERSEY CITY, N.J.--( BUSINESS WIRE )-- Voyager Digital (“Voyager”), through its new and licensed crypto asset brokerage, Voyager Digital, LLC, today announced the launch of its highly anticipated iOS mobile operating system application (“Voyager App”) for commission-free trading of 18 of the largest and most liquid crypto assets. The rollout follows a period of successful public beta testing before opening up to a wider audience.
The new Voyager App provides a single access point for investors to buy and sell crypto assets with no commissions. Using proprietary smart order routing technology and direct connectivity to multiple exchanges and market makers, the Voyager App scans and finds the deepest pools of liquidity to execute orders while offering customers the potential for price improvement. Moreover, customers will benefit from enhanced features and functionality including wallet to securely manage all of their crypto assets in one place, as well as self-custody through the firm’s previously announced strategic relationship with Ethos.io . Voyager is also introducing cost basis and tax analysis services.
“Our vision to bring the crypto brokerage experience in line with what investors have come to expect from equity markets is now a reality,” said Stephen Ehrlich, Voyager Co-Founder and CEO. “We knew there was a better way for investors to access a cost-efficient and transparent platform validated by our overwhelmingly positive feedback and demand from investors who are eager to start using our platform.”
The Voyager App features include:
Instant account opening and funding in USD with a $10 minimum
Price improvement available on many orders
Access to 18 of the largest, most liquid digital assets
High speed fiat/coin trading
Advanced charting, real-time market data and analytics
Best-in-class customer service
Phased Roll-Out
Voyager will institute a measured roll-out beginning with clients in Arizona, California, Illinois Kentucky Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Missouri, Montana and Wisconsin, states in which residents are already approved to trade digital assets. This provides a controlled, approach to onboard users and continue to be highly responsive to client needs. As Voyager’s applications with more key states are approved, those wait listed users will be invited and on-boarded respectively, with a goal of ultimately having more than 40 approved states by the end of 2019.
Those interested in downloading the Voyager App or joining the wait list should visit https://www.investvoyager.com/
About Voyager Digital
Voyager Digital Holdings Inc. (“Voyager”), through its regulated subsidiary, Voyager Digital, LLC is a crypto asset broker that provides retail and institutional investors with a turnkey solution to trade crypto assets. Voyager offers investors best execution, data, wallet and custody services through its institutional-grade open architecture platform. Voyager was founded by established Wall Street and Silicon Valley entrepreneurs who teamed to bring a better, more transparent and cost-efficient alternative for trading crypto assets to the marketplace. Voyager is registered with FinCen. Voyager Digital (Canada) Ltd. is publicly listed on the TSX.V under the symbol VYGR. Please visit us at https://www.investvoyager.com/
Related
