Review
Praise for Cryptocurrency
"Chicago author/entrepreneur Neil Hoffman has made a fortune trading bitcoin and cryptocurrencies. An ex-army, an online entrepreneur and a self-taught computer programmer, he loves trading cryptocurrencies and forex and he sees it as having a huge potential to make some serious income. In this book he shares his insights in cryptocurrencies and forex, believing that bitcoin and cryptocurrencies will revolutionize the world within the next decade. This is a near-definitive introduction to a concept we all must learn. And Neil Hoffman is an exemplary guide! Grady Harp, October 17"- Grady Harp, HALL OF FAME TOP 500 REVIEWER
"Cryptocurrency: The Ultimate Guide..." by Neil Hoffman et al. is an excellent resource for newbies or people planning to become heavily invested in cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Etherum, Ripple, Money etc. Essentially, cryptocurrency is a complex code used to encrypt data transfers in order to accomplish and preserve exchange value using uniform rule structures.
Overall, "Cryptocurrency: The Ultimate Guide..." by Hoffman et al. is a very important resource to purchase before you make any major commitments into the purchase of cryptocurrencies." -Dr. Joseph S. Maresca, HALL OF FAME
"An excellent book for newbies like me. It explains how it all works. How to go about it and step by step instructions for an excellent result. If you go into something like this without this book you are most likely to fail. I loved reading and learning so much. I recommend reading it and learning. It can make a difference in your life." - Sherry Westendorf
"I've been hearing the terms "Bitcoin" and "blockchain" being used more and more frequently as a means of currency exchange. Curious, I picked up "Cryptocurrency" by Neil Hoffman. My first impression was that clearly Hoffman has carefully researched his subject matter and offers his approach to cryptocurrencies in an easy-to-digest format. It will take a bit to get a handle on the terminology, but you will definitely come away from this book with enlightened and user-friendly knowledge of the subject. If you want to know more about the wave of the future, read on - you won't be disappointed." - Laura Turner, Amazon Reader
"A truly helpful book for the total newbie to cryptocurrency. It's a good starting point for those who want to get involved in that market as the information provided is in simple and clear language." - Zaneum, Amazon Customer
