Crypto Feud: TRON Founder Takes Shots at Ethereum Creator’s Twitter Follower Count
Tony Spilotro | February 12, 2019 | 1:00 am
Crypto Feud: TRON Founder Takes Shots at Ethereum Creator’s Twitter Follower Count
Tony Spilotro | February 12, 2019 | 1:00 am
Since late November of last year, Bitcoin and the majority of other crypto assets such as Ethereum or Litecoin have continued to plummet to new lows. However, TRON , a cryptocurrency aimed at “decentralizing the web” has experienced solid and steady growth in value.
TRON’s positive price action was due largely in part to an upcoming airdrop for the new BitTorrent Token launching on the TRON blockchain as a TRC-10 token, along with a major developer conference featuring celebrity appearances from the likes of Kobe Bryant and more. The constant marketing hype and promotion put forth by TRON founder Justin Sun and the recent buzz TRON has experienced has earned Sun more followers than Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin – something that Sun immediately took the opportunity to rub in Buterin’s face.
Justin Sun Rises In Twitter Followers, Sets Off To Rub it in Buterin’s Face
Hype machine Justin Sun created his Twitter account in August 2017 to help promote his new cryptocurrency TRON. The outspoken founder has earned himself a reputation for making announcements of announcements, which has also seemingly earned him a large Twitter following – one that rivals that of Ethereum co-founder Vitalkin Buterin.
Now we are both 832k. We started six year after you but we always know it is never too late. @VitalikButerin #TRON #BitTorrent #TRX #BTT pic.twitter.com/OTECzheO6U
— Justin Sun (@justinsuntron) February 10, 2019
Except Buterin’s Twitter account was started back in May of 2011, and features 3 times the tweets that Sun has amassed on the social media soapbox. By that comparison, Sun is right to be proud that his Twitter antics have amounted to a larger follower count than his peers. However, Sun took the opportunity to rub it in the face of Vitalik Buterin, co-founder of Ethereum and someone who often speaks out against TRON .
