Bitcoin [BTC] and Ethereum [ETH] brokerage Coinmama hacked; 1.3 million users affected
Published
Tweet
Coinmama, the Israel-based cryptocurrency brokerage company has suffered a major database breach resulting in 1.3 million users’ data being prone to hackers, as stated in an official announcement on 15 February.
The company which allows users to purchase Bitcoin [BTC] and Ethereum [ETH] via credit cards was one among 24 companies that was attacked as part of a multi-platform hack, which affected 747 million records, in total. Companies in the realm of gaming, media streaming, interior designing, and travel were prone to the larger attack.
According to a statement on the company’s website, information pertaining to 450,000 email addresses was posted on a dark web registry.
The statement from the Coinmama website said:
“Today, February 15, 2019 Coinmama was informed of a list of emails and hashed passwords that were posted on a dark web registry. Our Security Team is investigating, and based on the information at hand, we believe the intrusion is limited to about 450,000 email addresses and hashed passwords of users who registered until August 5th, 2017.
This comes as part of a larger breach affecting 24 companies and a total of 747 million user records.”
Presently, the company is investigating the issue and has since assured people that the hack has not resulted in cryptocurrencies being stolen from users’ wallets.
Coinmama further assured customers that their data, primarily related to their credit card information, has not been compromised. The above statement went on to read,
“As of February 15, 2019, there has been no evidence of this data being used by perpetrators. Given the dated nature of the published data, we have no reason to suspect that any other Coinmama systems are compromised. Coinmama does not store credit card information.”
According to reports, the hacker allegedly goes by the name, ‘Gnosticplayers,’ and put up 127 million stolen user records on Dream Market, a dark web marketplace, from an array of eight different companies. Coinmama features on the list with a database estimated size of around 420,000, with the data selling for the price of 0.3497 BTC.
Coinmama’s security breach is the second hack in the crypto-realm this year, with the first being the New Zealand-based cryptocurrency exchange, Cryptopia. Ethereum wallets worth $23 million in Cryptopia were hacked, with the breach persisting for two weeks after the incident. Only this week did the local authorities give a green light for the exchange to resume operations.
