CRYPTO CANABIS
THE FUTURE OF TRADING & EXCHANGING
Utilizing blockchain technology, decentralized abilities of trading cryptocurrencies within the Internet Of Things (IOT) paired with full Peer To Peer transparency gives the ability of control of trading and exchanging cryptocurrencies on your own terms and only at your own comfortability before a full and finalized trade.  The future innovation of true decentralized trading and exchanging!
The DEX Exchange business model will house two exchange pillars, the first being a full TRC10 and TRC20 Bancor type protocol exchange,  The second will progress within hard cap raising after TRC10/20 exchange is launched. This second in house exchange will be licensed with the Modulus Company for exchange security for full Bitcoin, TRON, Litecoin, TRONEuropeRewardCoin and succeeding TRC10/20 tokens, all paired with DEXCOIN (DEX).
1 DEXCOIN (DEX) TRC20 = 0.25 TRX: The ICO will run in five phase tiers:
Pre-ICO Tier: (January 11th, 2019)
Phase 3: (February 22nd, 2019)
Use TERC for 200% Bonus or TRX for 100% Bonus on all DEXCOIN (DEX)  -1 TERC = 3 DEXCOIN (DEX)  -0.25 TRX = 2 DEXCOIN (DEX)
Use TERC for 25% Bonus or TRX for 0% Bonus on all DEXCOIN (DEX)  -1 TERC = 1.25 DEXCOIN (DEX)  -0.25 TRX = 1 DEXCOIN
Phase 1: (January 25th, 2019)
Phase 4: (March 1st, 2019)
-0% Bonus on all DEXCOIN (DEX)  -Executive Audit Of ICO Progress
ICO TRIERS
Phase 5: (March 8th, 2019)
Use TERC for 100% Bonus or TRX for 50% Bonus on all DEXCOIN (DEX)  -1 TERC = 2 DEXCOIN (DEX)  -0.25 TRX = 1.5 DEXCOIN (DEX)
0% Bonus on all DEXCOIN (DEX) Soft Cap Review:   -8,000,000 TRX/TERC Equivalent Soft Cap Review For Migration Onto Open Market Exchange Trading In Continuation of Hard Cap Fundraising.  -DEX Exchange in house exchange back and front end to begin halfway through meeting soft cap. Exchange developments and beta testing to begin when meeting 4,000,000 TRX/TERC Equivalent to fund development team and servers accordingly.  -Q3/Q4:  DEX Exchange: TRC10/20 exchange: Deadline completion of beta test and full launch. -Upon TRC10/20 exchange launch hard cap phase will progress: 50,000,000 TRX Hard Cap-
Phase 2: (February 8th, 2019)
Use TERC for 50% Bonus or TRX for 25% Bonus on all DEXCOIN (DEX)  -1 TERC = 1.5 DEXCOIN (DEX)  -0.25 TRX = 1.25 DEXCOIN (DEX)
CANNABIS BREEDING GAME
Crypto Cannabis is a blockchain technology housed DAPP (Decentralized Application) Game. The game begins by creating the gene plants of smart contract "Legacy Landrace Strains" by utilizing the TRON Foundation cryptocurrency (TRON TRX) and PotCoin Cryptocurrency. These plants are obtained by mining the TRC20 Smart Contract strain types with SativaGeneSeed and IndicaGeneSeed TRC10 tokens depending on the smart contract strains GeneSeed genetic makeup. These TRC10 strains are then integrated into game play. Game Brief:  -Initial Crypto Cannabis game ecosystem build launch.  -Social media community growth and community groups commences. -ITO pre-sale and main sale will open up for the general public to invest into the Crypto Cannabis in game asset tokens and CCGX Mutual Fund Game Shares.  -Pre-Sale of dispensary licenses will issue out to participants in the crowd-sale to have ready for the full game launch. 22 Legacy Landrace Strains exist in all. Each Legacy Landrace Strain is a TRC20 smart contract containing only a 1,000 quantity card limit of each Legacy Landrace Strain type. From here in game Legacy Landrace Strain’s when crossbred will unlock new hybrid smart contract strains. All strains are worth TRX and will intrinsically raise in value throughout longterm progressions of the game, in example alike to Crypto Kitties.
The ITO will progress with a soft cap of 2,750,000 TRX to fund the development team building the back end of the game engine and deployment of the TRC20 mineable smart contract strain types. CryptoCannabisGame (CCGX) Mutual Fund Game Shares will begin trading and listing upon the TRXMarket ring Q1 2019. Upon full game development completion of beta testing and live launch there will be new game additions issued out in development to bring more in depth game play that will be very interesting to game players and new rare smart contract TRC20 mineable strains being developed and available to be mined (grown) to be obtained and profited from owning and selling.  There are several investment packages to choose fro that carry rewards and good ROI (return on investment incentives)- Custom Strain Name Offerring: Only 50 Offerring’s In All: Initial 25,000 TRX / TERC Equivalent
We will Transfer on your Adress the GOT Tokens. Thx for your Support. 
80 TERC = 100 GOT 
At times as well there will be exchange trading competitions that will be held annually where traders use DEXCOIN to buy and sell certain cryptocurrencies during the trading competitions. Highest volume traders showing buys and sells with DEXCOIN (DEX) will win great high value prizes of cryptocurrencies like BITCOIN, LedgerNano’s and other great prizes that will grow to be prizes like vacation packages, cars, etc.  Stock Exchange With Digital Asset Stocks: In longterm after main exchange launch, DEX Exchange will obtain a firm with licensed stock brokers and will offer digital stock share TRC10 decimal precision tokens backed by actual company stock shares like APPLE, TESLA, ALIBABA and more. All of these digital stock shares will be paired to be bought and sold with DEXCOIN (DEX) TRC20. This allows an ability for a wider customer user base of stock traders and cryptocurrency traders to succeed the DEX Exchange product and the DEXCOIN (DEX) value as a utility and digital asset. Now stock investors and cryptocurrency investors have the ability to buy and sell fractional amounts of company stock shares instead of having to buy the entire stock share.
With these bonuses you can apply an easy ability to fund your tokenized project to further succeed being in the public on the exchange. Exchange listing fee is set at 2,000,000 DEXCOIN. Investing your business and or tokenized platform/project during the ICO Tier phases gives you discounts off of this entire entire fee. If for example you invest TRX/TERC equivalent into 2,000,000 DEXCOIN, you will have bonus amounts of DEXCOIN as an extra ROI for your portfolio to short and or hodl as a long term investment with value growth over the years, as well as while enjoying trade fee discounts. You further more join into to the DEX Mutual Fund that carries an estimate 11% to 12% annual return respectively in TRX or Bitcoin quarterly.  All DEXCOIN spent into DEX Exchange for listing fees and or trading fees will be forever burned within its own smart contract decreasing the long term total supply while increasing the total longterm demand.
IF YOU PAY  WITH TERC  + 20% BONUS
There is a total supply of 500,000,000 DEXCOIN (DEX) TRC20. 250,000,000 DEXCOIN will be burned long term unit only 250,000,000 remain in existence, so owning a large piece of DEXCOIN by investing during the ICO gives great incentives in the shorter and longterm as a tokenized project and or an individual and independent investor whom wishes to become a customer of DEX Exchange to retain profits on initial investment and receive longterm benefits of investment profits return as well.
Pre-investing in DEXCOIN (DEX) TRC20 during the ICO will give investors a short term and long term profit ROI (ReturnOnInvestment) within the first year of launch and running the exchange. By owning DEXCOIN (DEX) as an exchange customer you receive trade fee discounts year to year by holding DEXCOIN in your wallet while buying and selling cryptocurrencies. DEXCOIN (DEX) is the DEX Exchange native utility cryptocurrency and pairing tool for all listed in house cryptocurrencies.  If you are a business with a sturdy and safe tokenized project that is succeeding itself and wish to list onto DEX Exchange, DEXCOIN (DEX) enacts as the payment method of listing fee. Once the exchange launch and runnings occur, DEXCOIN value will intrinsically be managed to increase in valuation year to year. By pre-investing with ICO discounts during the different tier phases of crowdsale of DEXCOIN you receive more than you would once ICO tiers drop to 0% bonuses and upon exchange launch.
1 TRX = 100 GOT 
For example. if you have 10 % of the Tokens. You Will ern every Month 10% of all Profits from this Game. InApp Purchase are planing: Booster Packs, Tournaments, Shopsystem and a lot more...  „We will transfer the purchased token into your wallet once Softcap is reached.“
We decided to issue our GoT tokens as stock shares. Anyone who participates in these tokens has a share in the game's profit.  The Share Token has build of 15 Billion Tokens. The Token Sale has a hardcap of 3. Billion Tokens. 50% goes to the Team and 50% goes to you. The Rest are Frozen.
GoT looks like a TOP Game from the industry. It´s stratey new than other Trading Card Games. You can play fast with friends and without long waiting time. On Step 2 Founded, we bring a great story.
