JAN 24, 2019
SaTT, an Ethereum Dapp to Rule Advertising Transactions
Atayen Inc. has developed a powerful advertising performance dapp called SaTT that is set to transform the online advertising market by bridging the gap between advertising opportunities and brands looking to leverage them
Press Releases
January 23th 2018, France - Atayen Inc ., known for its unique Facebook marketing apps, has developed a powerful advertising performance dapp called SaTT that is set to transform the online advertising market by bridging the gap between advertising opportunities and brands looking to leverage them.
ATAYEN, Inc., the brainchild of app developers, Gauthier Bros and Stephanie Clement, is an American company specializing in developing dedicated applications for business pages on Facebook and other social networks. It was founded in 2014 to further develop the marketing application technology the two had invented and had been using since 2008, to improve the performance of business pages on Facebook.
ATAYEN, Inc.’s Iframe suite of apps allows customers to establish an effective communication hub with customers using simple, ready-to-use, yet powerful, tools. The app suite is used by more than 4 million paying customers from 121 countries. Some well-known brands that use the iFrame suite of apps are Ikea, Disney, Coca Cola, Amazon, Nike, Starbucks, and Volkswagen, to name just a few.
In this blazing fast age of digital advertising, where opportunities appear and die within the span of a heartbeat, it is imperative to capture the moment to leverage it for maximum results and efficiency. However, the shoot-and-scoot approach of digital marketing usually burns huge sized holes in the budget of companies without any robust way to calculate ROI and other metrics. Current methods of calculating the effectiveness of a digital marketing campaign include calculating the number of impressions, clicks, or sales. However, they do not include finding and understanding reactions on social networks that are useful in judging the performance of an ad.
SaTT, the smart advertising performance Dapp, seeks to help quantify the return on investment in the current environment through a more advanced method. The Smartcontract gets data from third-party API that are called oracles (it could be Youtube, facebook, twitter, Instagram…) to evaluate the performance of digital actions and process to the payment automatically once criteria are completed, it’s a perfect use case of ethereum smartcontract revolution.
With SaTT, advertisers and publishers will be able to obtain results such as impressions, clicks, subscribers, sales or reactions on the social networks for a campaign with the most relevant tools according to the set marketing objectives. As new information enters the SaTT ecosystem, new tools can be added to make it more comprehensive and efficient.
“SaTT is the product of our extensive and deep insight that has come from more than a decade of working in one of the most dynamic industries — the digital marketing industry. We have experienced the pain points ourselves, but are sure that what we have created with SaTT will solve all of them and create an ecosystem that will help companies leverage the most out of marketing opportunities and successfully meet their objectives.” 
- Gauthier Bros, CEO of ATAYEN, Inc.
Now SaTT reach the top 5 on ICObench with a rate of 4,7/5 by 41 experts.
For more information on SaTT, please visit the website .
This is a paid press release. Cointelegraph does not endorse and is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy, quality, advertising, products or other materials on this page. Readers should do their own research before taking any actions related to the company. Cointelegraph is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.
0  Comments
