March 3, 2019
Many probably know that the previous twelve months were not particularly friendly to cryptocurrencies, and since January 2018 there have been two major market crashes. However, it could be that the wishes of investors are finally coming true as the market currently sees profits. While there is still no certainty about this behavior, investors around the world are finding the current trend refreshing.
An interesting development that has been noted nowadays is the increase in the price of VeChain, which is showing marginal profits at this time.
The price for VeChain (VET) is increasing
While most cryptocurrencies have experienced extreme ups and downs throughout their lives, VeChain is usually surprisingly unaffected by market behavior. In fact, its price chart does not normally show any significant changes and appears to be fairly flat compared to other cryptocurrencies.
While this is a good thing, since the coin is more stable than most coins because it avoids volatility, and the fact that the price is normally not affected makes the current gains all the stranger.
In the last 24 hours, the price of VeChain increased by 2.16% and was thus $ 0.00401120 at the time of writing. The growth is low and the value of the coin increased only a fraction of a cent. However, this is still not a typical behavior for this cryptocurrency, which attracted analysts and investors alike.
Many have started mentioning VET in the social media, which shows how unexpected it was when VeChain changed his behavior.
Sunday Gazette: #LTC and #BNB Light on the top 10. #ADA #Neo #Waves & #VET There are good profits to top 25 #BTT So far, it shows the rookie of the year and is up today when logic says it should be something else due to the 11th (or possibly before) air drop. Forward
– "RB3" – The Blockchain Bull! (@RobertBagley) February 10, 2019
Over time, VeChain could continue to grow if the current positive momentum is not disturbed.
Meanwhile, some members of the Crypto community also noted an unusual trading behavior in which VeChain was involved when a Binance user set up a 25 million VET wall directly adjacent to a $ 63 million buy wall.
If you put your $ 25 million wall into a $ 63 million purchase, it seems legitimate
Biggest sales wall at the lowest level
Boy, when this 63-meter guy hits his vet's bag, faces melt pic.twitter.com/JuneIxijEO
– Bull Of Bitcoin (@ Bull0fBitcoin) February 10, 2019
The mood on cryptocurrencies, and especially VeChain, seems to be changing again, and some even claim that VET is among the most undervalued coins in the market. While there are likely to be many other projects that may require more attention, as many are below VeChain (currently in 25th place), today's market seems to be paying tribute to this particular project.
The fact that VeChain is moving out of his sleep is proof to many that the market is ready for a true positive shift and that the crypto industry still has potential. It's too early to say whether or not this potential will turn into big profits, but the market has been relatively strong so far.
It's hard to tell where the market could develop, but the positive change has encouraged the community, and every growth helps after a year of crypto winter.
To receive the latest news about cryptocurrency, join our telegram!
Disclaimer: This article should not be construed as investment advice and is not intended. Global Coin Report and / or its affiliates, employees, authors and subcontractors are cryptocurrency investors and may occasionally hold interests in some of the coins or tokens they cover. Please do your own research before investing in cryptocurrency and read our full disclaimer.
Courtesy of Pexels
The Post Positive Crypto Price Trend Moves VeChain (VET) first appeared in the Global Coin Report.
Read more at https://globalcoinreport.com/positive-crypto-price-trend-vechain-vet/
Contribution Source: Positive Crypto Price Trend Moves VeChain (VET)
More Bitcoin news and cryptocurrency news on TheBitcoinNews.com
