15 days ago
Is there a t-shirt printing company accepting bitcoin for payment?
So I wanna start a t-shirt business 100% on crypto but haven't found a company that accepts bitcoin. Any suggestions? Thanks.
5 comments
What are your thoughts? Log in or Sign up log in sign up
Sort by
Comment deleted by user 15 days ago
level 2
Original Poster1 point · 15 days ago
Thanks!
1 point · 15 days ago
Hmm...I'm on their site lookin for where I can pay with bitcoin, but in the "checkout" it only gives me options for credit cards, paypal, and amazon. I can see the bitcoin logo in the footer, but clicking it doesn't do anything. Thoughts?
Reply
Depends. Where are you located (generally) & how many tees do you need?
Reply
Original Poster1 point · 15 days ago
USA. I dunno how many tees I'll need, ideally i'd want them printed on demand.
Reply
If you need shirts screen printed, my company accepts crypto. DM me.
Reply
4.2k
Online
A community dedicated to Bitcoin, the currency of the Internet. Bitcoin is a distributed, worldwide, decentralized digital money. Bitcoins are issued and managed without any central authority whatsoever: there is no government, company, or bank in charge of Bitcoin. You might be interested in Bitcoin if you like cryptography, distributed peer-to-peer systems, or economics. A large percentage of Bitcoin enthusiasts are libertarians, though people of all political philosophies are welcome.
Subscribe
Guidelines
Do not use URL shortening services: always submit the real link.
Begging/asking for bitcoins is absolutely not allowed, no matter how badly you need the bitcoins. Only requests for donations to large, recognized charities are allowed, and only if there is good reason to believe that the person accepting bitcoins on behalf of the charity is trustworthy.
News articles that do not contain the word "Bitcoin" are usually off-topic. This subreddit is not about general financial news.
Submissions that are mostly about some other cryptocurrency belong elsewhere. For example, /r/CryptoCurrency is a good place to discuss all cryptocurrencies.
Promotion of client software which attempts to alter the Bitcoin protocol without overwhelming consensus is not permitted.
No referral links in submissions.
No compilations of free Bitcoin sites.
r/Bitcoin Rules
