As Bitcoin is at the top in the list of cryptocurrencies, financial experts are weighing in on whether to invest in cryptocurrency or not.
Where some people are calling it a total scam, others are keen to invest in it.
Whatever side you fall on, it would be unfortunate to lose your bitcoin these days. There are few unlucky people, who have done just that.
According to the reports by Newsweek, more than 3 million bitcoins have been lost since the cryptocurrency was created in 2009. That’s almost $30 billion today.
You May Also Read:  Can Lost Bitcoins Be Recovered?
3 Wildest Things People are Doing to Recover Lost Bitcoin
1. Toxic Landfill Search
An IT worker in the UK, James Howell, began mining bitcoin on his personal laptop in 2009. According to the reports by The Telegraph, his computer broke in 2013 but he kept the hard drive in case bitcoin becomes valuable one day.
And, it did!
While cleaning his home that year, he accidentally put that hard drive into a waste bin, where it got buried.
The UK resident is willing to try searching for the landfill, that reportedly has 350,000 tons of waste, but the Newport City Council won’t allow it.
2. Investors Undergoing Hypnotherapy
Many early Bitcoin investors are in a painful condition, as they can’t remember the complex security codes which they originally created to gain access to their Bitcoin wallet .
And, there’s no way to reset the password if you forget.
Hope on the horizon is that James Miller, South Carolina hypnotist, has recently started helping people recall forgotten passwords and find misplaced storage devices.
He tells the newspaper,
“I’ve developed a collection of techniques that allow people to access older memories or see things they’ve put away in a stashed spot.”
Miller charges 1 Bitcoin and 5% of the amount recovered for his services, though he says his rates are flexible.
3. Man Hacks His Bitcoin Vault
Former Wired editor, Mark Frauenfelder, wrote his password on an orange piece of paper in January 2017.
In March 2017, he and his wife jetted off to Tokyo for vacation. After they returned from their vacation, Mark noticed that his orange slip was nowhere to be found.
The house cleaner he hired while on vacation had apparently thrown away the piece of paper.
One day, Frauenfelder got an email from the vault’s manufacturer explaining that the security was being updated. As per the email, there was a security vulnerability within the vault system that needed fixing.
Frauenfelder reached out to a bitcoin expert who put him in contact with a 15 year old coding whiz who could give him video instructions on how to exploit the vulnerability and hack the vault.
After agreeing to pay the teenagers the amount of $3,700 in Bitcoin, he received instructions that would hack his computer and show him the password.
Here are a Few Articles for you to Read Next:
How to Create Your Own Cryptocurrency?
What Is the Difference Between Blockchain and Cryptocurrency?
How To Sell Bitcoin Gold?
- - - - -
